---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: 0217149d-34f8-45cd-a3b3-61a21e52a212
language: en
modified: '2020-01-23T02:39:48.202401Z'
title: LAF -  Inner Product Space, Norms, Distance functions
title_id: laf-inner-product-space-norms-distance-functions
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

The idea of vector space is great. It helps us to catch the essence of the linear structure behind `$\mathbb R^n$`, `$M_{mn}$`, `$\mathcal P^n$` and many others. However, having only the linear structure is quite restrictive. Having two vectors we usually want to do more than just to add them together. Another thing we would like to have for vectors is  a notion of distance and orthogonality. Previously we saw that those were easily following from dot product. In this challenge we generalize the idea of dot product into "inner product".    


## Terminology

- inner product
- inner product space
- weighted dot product
- length, distance, orthogonality
- unit vector, unit sphere, normalization
- Pythagoras' Theorem
- orthogonal set, orthonormal set, orthogonal basis, orthonormal basis
- Gram-Schmidt Process
- orthogonal projection
- Cauchy-Schwarz Inequality
- Triangle inequality
 

## Theorems

- propeties of inner products
- Pythagoras' Theorem
- Gram-Schmidt Process
- Cauchy-Schwarz Inequality
- Triangle inequality


## Key points

- for many vector spaces we can define inner product
- inner product is generalization of dot product
- using inner product we can define norm(length) of vectors, measure distance between vectors, define orthogonality
- "standard" geometrical properties are preserved in an inner product space



## Challenge

1. Let `${\bf u} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\-2 \end{array}\right]$` and `${\bf v} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 4\\3 \end{array}\right]$` in the vector space `$\mathbb R^2$` with the inner product `$<{\bf u} , {\bf v} > = 3u_1v_1 + 4u_2v_2$`. Compute:
    a) `$<{\bf u} ,{\bf v}>$`

    b) `$\|{\bf u} \|$`

    c) `$d({\bf u} ,{\bf v})$`

2. Let `$f(x) = \sin x$` and `$g(x) = \sin x + \cos x$` in the vector space `$\mathcal C[0,2\pi]$` with the inner product defined as `$<f,g> = \int_a^b f(x)g(x) dx $`. Compute:
    a) `$<f,g>$`

    b) `$\|f\|$`

    c) `$d(f,g)$`

3. Determine which of the four inner product axioms do not hold. Give a specific example in each case.
    a) `$<{\bf u} , {\bf v}> = u_1v_1$` in `$\mathbb R^2$` 

    b) `$<{\bf u} , {\bf v}> = u_1v_1 - u_2v_2$` in `$\mathbb R^2$`  

    c) `$<{\bf u} , {\bf v}> = u_1v_2 + u_2v_1$` in `$\mathbb R^2$` 

4. Under what conditions are the following true for vectors `${\bf u}  $` and `${\bf v}$` in an inner product space `$V$`?
    a) `$\|{\bf u}  + {\bf v}\| = \|{\bf u}  \| + \|{\bf v}\|$`

    b) `$\|{\bf u}  + {\bf v}\| = \|{\bf u}  \| - \|{\bf v}\|$`

5. Let `$V$` be an inner product space. Prove that `$$ \|{\bf u} \| - \|{\bf v}\|\leq \|{\bf u}  - {\bf v}\|.$$`


6. Let `$<{\bf u} ,{\bf v}> $` is an inner product. Prove that  the following  statements are identity.
    a) `$$\| {\bf u}  + {\bf v}\|^2 =\|{\bf u} \|^2 + 2\langle {\bf u} , {\bf v} \rangle + \|{\bf v}\|^2.$$`

    b) `$$\langle {\bf u} , {\bf v} \rangle = \frac14 \|{\bf u}  + {\bf v}\|^2 - \frac14 \|{\bf u}  -{\bf v}\|^2 .$$`

7. Apply the Gram-Schmidt Process to the basis `$\mathcal B$` to obtain an orthogonal basis for the inner product space `$V$` relative to the given inner product.  
    a) `$V= \mathbb R^2$`, `$\mathcal B = \left\{\left[\begin{array}{r}  1\\0 \end{array} \right],\left[\begin{array}{r}  1\\1 \end{array} \right] \right\}$` with the inner product `$<{\bf u} , {\bf v} > = [u_1 \ u_2] \left[\begin{array}{rr} 4& -2 \\ -2& 7 \end{array}\right] \left[\begin{array}{c} v_1 \\v_2 \end{array}\right]$`.

    b) `$V = \mathcal P_2 [0,1]$`, `$\mathcal B = \{ 1, 1+x,1+x+x^2\}$` with the inner product `$<f,g> = \int_a^b f(x)g(x) dx $`.




## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Inner Product & Inner Product Space - Introduction by ASTROTZUR](https://youtu.be/AxQijYY6cQ8)
 

- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from an immediate explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.






