---
extra_resources: {}
topics: []
editor_id: github.NanoScaleDesign
modified: 2022-01-19T01:11:12.1042626Z
affiliated_institute:
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: 九州大学
version: '1.0'
title_id: fourier-analysis-coursework-2021
language: en
id: 04270ec1-754b-4489-90dc-6407584e1814
translations: {}
title: Fourier Analysis coursework (2021)

---

**- This is a coursework challenge and has the below deadline -**

## Comments
There are many interesting things about Fourier analysis, whether in terms of the mathematics or applications.
This coursework aims to give you the opportunity to follow areas related to your own interest in the subject.


## Coursework task

You have three options (choose _one only_):

1. Obtain data, then use your programming skills to analyse the data and extract interesting information from it.
2. Explore an area of mathematics related to Fourier analysis that was not covered by the course
3. Explore an area of mathematics related to Fourier analysis that was touched on by the course, but go into further depth.

## Submission requirements

Whatever you choose above (1-3), please submit the following:

**a**) A report (guideline: 3 to 4 pages)
**b**) A list of references
**c**) Challenges with their fully-worked solutions (ie, not just the final answer) (guideline: 2 challenges)
**d**) The source code used for your analysis (if you chose the programming project)

Please submit in PDF format, and include the original files you used to generate the PDF too.

Your coursework will be shared with others during the class, so please keep the challenge solutions in a separate file from the rest of the coursework.

Submission deadline: Until **Tuesday 1st February 2022 at 23:59**.

**Submit here:** >> LINK TO BE UPDATED BEFORE THE DEADLINE <<

There will be a 13% penalty for submissions made late, by Tuesday 8th February 2022 at 23:59. Submissions after this date cannot be considered (sorry).

During exam I will confirm that I received your coursework.

## Assessment

Grades will be awarded on the basis of creativity, demonstration of knowledge, quality of submitted work and accuracy.