---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  6803de81-2784-4300-9adf-3a0f2d7698d5:
    content_type: image/png
    description: infinity
id: 0bb6bb6d-dd26-4183-9540-961a08fe4055
language: en
modified: '2019-07-02T05:09:41.165677Z'
title: Sequences and Series
title_id: sequences-and-series
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

Infinite series will allow us to introduce a new way of evaluating complex integrals. The basic theory for sequences and series in complex variable is analogous to what you have already learned  in real calculus.  

## Terminology

- convergen/divergent sequence
- infinite series
- partial sums
- convergence of series vs sum of series
- geometric series 
- absolute and conditional convergence
- power series
- radius and circle of convergence



## Theorems

- convergence vs convergence of real and imaginy parts
- formula for partial sums of geometric series
- necessary condition for convergence of series
- divergence test
- absolute convergence implies convergence
- ratio test
- root test
- convergence within, on and outside of circle of convergence
- ways to find radius of convergence
- arithmetic of power series



## Comments

Good understanding of geometric and  power series is crucial for the future challenges.


## Challenge

1. Evaluate `$\displaystyle{\lim_{n \to \infty} \frac{n+1}{n+i}}$`.

2. Does the series converge or diverge? If it converges find its sum

   a)  `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{i^n}{3^n}}$`
   
   b)  `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{(-i)^n}{3^n}}$`
   
   c)  `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{i^{n+1}}{3^n}}$`
   
   d)  `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{7i^n}{3^n}}$`
   
   e)  `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=2}^{\infty} \frac{i^n}{3^n}}$`
   
   f)  `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{ie^{in\pi}}{3^n}}$`
   
   g)  `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=2}^{\infty} {(1+i)^n}}$`

3. Find the radius and  circle of convergence of each power series.

    a) `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{(z+1)^n}{(2+i)^n}}$`
    
    b) `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{(z-1-3i)^n}{n+3i}}$`
    
    c) `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{(n-1)^2}{n!} z^n}$`
    
    d) `$\displaystyle{\sum_{n=0}^{\infty} n!(z+1-i)^n}$`

4. Show that the power series `$\displaystyle \sum_{k=1}^\infty \frac{z^k}{k^2}$` converges at every point on its circle of convergence.

5. Reread Theorem 6.3. What conclusion can be drawn, if any, when `$\displaystyle \lim_{n\to \infty} |z_n| = \not 0$`?   


5. Show that the power series `$\displaystyle \sum_{k=1}^\infty k \frac{z^k}$` diverges at every point on its circle of convergence.

## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Theory explanation by Michael Barrus](https://youtu.be/gT9pK5OkM9Q)

- [Calculations by MathsStatsUNSW](https://youtu.be/WJOf4PfoHow)

- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.

