---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: 0dc52920-bd80-4383-ba6f-324ceb448dfb
language: en
modified: '2019-09-12T04:02:57.055261Z'
title: LAF - Change of basis, Change of the matrix of linear transformation
title_id: laf-change-of-basis-change-of-the-matrix-of-linear-transformation
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

In many applications a problem described using one coordinate system may be solved more easily by switching to a new system. Up to now we were using 
standard basis to describe everything and hence the notion of  basis vand coordinates seemed alike. In this challenge we introduce the idea of changing  basis (and hence its associated coordinate system) together with a straightforward method for calculation. Moreover, we discover that the standard matrix of a linear transformation is not the only matrix associated with the transformation.  



## Terminology

- basis
- coordinate system
- change of basis matrix
- 
 

## Theorems

- properties of change of basis matrix
- Gauss-Jordan method for comupting a change of basis matrix



## Key points

- to be able to find the change of basis matrix 
- Gauss-Jordan method for comupting a change of basis matrix
- 



## Challenge

1.  Compute (i) the characteristic polynomial of `$A$`, (ii) the eigenvalues of `$A$`, (iii) a basis for each eigenspace of `$A$`, and (iv) the algebraic and geometric multiplicity of each eigenvalue.

    a) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrr} 1& 1&0 \\ 0&-2&1 \\ 0&0&1 \end{array}\right]$`

    b) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrr} 1& 0&2 \\ 3&-1&3 \\ 2&0&1 \end{array}\right]$`

    c) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrrr} 3& 1&0&0 \\ -1&1&0&0 \\0&0&1&4 \\ 0&0&1&1 \end{array}\right]$`

2. Let `$A$` be a `$2 \times 2$` matrix with eigenvectors `${\bf v}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ -1 \end{array}\right]$` and  `${\bf v}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$` corresponding to eigenvalues  `$\lambda_1 = \frac12$` and `$\lambda_2 = 2$`, respectively, and  `${\bf x} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 5 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$`. 

    a) Find `$A^{10} {\bf x}$`.

    b) Find `$A^k {\bf x}$`. What happens as `$k \to \infty$`?

3. Let `$A$` be a `$3 \times 3$` matrix with eigenvectors `${\bf v}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 0 \\0 \end{array}\right]$`,  `${\bf v}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 1\\0  \end{array}\right]$` and `${\bf v}_3 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 1\\ 1  \end{array}\right]$`  corresponding to eigenvalues  `$\lambda_1 = -\frac13$`, `$\lambda_2 = \frac13$`, and `$\lambda_3 = 1$`, respectively, and  `${\bf x} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 2 \\ 1 \\2 \end{array}\right]$`. 

    a) Find `$A^{20} {\bf x}$`.

    b) Find `$A^k {\bf x}$`. What happens as `$k \to \infty$`?



4. a) Show that, for any square matrix `$A$`, `$A^T$` and `$A$` have the same characteristic polynomial and hence the same eigenvalues.

   b) Give an example of a `$2\times 2$` matrix `$A$` for which `$A^T$` and `$A$` have different eigenspaces.

5. Let `$A$` be a nilpotent matrix(that is, `$A^m = O$` for some `$m>1$`). Show that `$\lambda = 0$` is the only eigenvalue of `$A$`.

6. Let `$A$` be an idempotent matrix (that is, `$A^2 = A$`). Show that `$\lambda = 0$` and `$\lambda = 1$` are the only possible eigenvalues of `$A$`.

7. If `${\bf v}$` is an eigenvector of `$A$` with corresponding eigenvalue `$\lambda$` and `$c$` is a scalar, show that `${\bf v}$` is an eigenvector of `$A- cI$` with corresponding eigenvalue `$\lambda - c$`. 

8. a) Find the eigenvalues and eigenspaces of `$A = \left[\begin{array}{rr} 3 & 2 \\ 5 & 0 \end{array}\right]$`.

   b)  Using Theorem 4.18 and Exercise 7, find the eigenvalues and eigenspaces of `$A^{-1}$`, `$A-2I$`, and `$A + 2I$`.

9. Let `$A$` and `$B$` be `$n\times n$` matrices with eigenvalues `$\lambda$` and `$\mu$`, respectively.

   a) Give an example to show that `$\lambda + \mu$` need not be an eigenvalue of `$A+ B$`.

   b) Give an example to show that `$\lambda\mu$` need not be an eigenvalue of `$AB$`.

   c) Suppose `$\lambda$` and `$\mu$` correspond to the same eigenvector `$\bf x$`. Show that, in this case, `$\lambda + \mu$` is an eigenvalue of `$A+ B$` and `$\lambda \mu$` is an eigenvalue  of `$AB$`.







## Resources

- Check textbook

- [The essence of eigenvalues and eigenvectors by 3blue1brown (stop at 13:04)](https://youtu.be/Ip3X9LOh2dk)

- [A range of possibilities for eigenvalues and eigenvectors by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/EZkDtcyPP6Q)




- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from an immediate explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.






