---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: 2551c6a1-7cd7-4e14-8fab-f30d9f9ef06f
language: en
modified: '2019-05-14T01:21:20.847987Z'
title: Special Power Functions
title_id: special-power-functions
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Terminology 
- complex polynomial function
- complex power function
- complex squaring function
- principal square root function
- inverse function
- restriction of a function
- restricted domain
- principal `$n$`th root function
- multiple valued functions
- Riemann surface (idea only)


## Comments

The complex power functions and complex polynomial functions are in a sence the "simplest" nonlinear complex functions. We will 
use them to approximate more "complex" nonlinear complex functions and hence we need to have a basic idea how they work. First focus on 
good understanding of `$z^2$` and `$z^\frac12$`. Later similar principles apply in the case of `$z^n$` and `$z^\frac1n$`. 


## Challenge



1. Find the image of the given set under the mapping `$w = z^2$`. Represent the mapping by drawing the set and its image.
    
    a) the ray `${\rm arg}(z) = - \frac{3}4\pi$`

    b) the line `$y = -5$`
    
    c) the triangle with vertices `$0$`, `$1$` and `$1+i$`
    
    d) the square  with vertices `$0$`, `$1$`, `$1+i$` and `$i$`

2. Find the image of the given set under the given composition of a linear function with the squaring function.

    a) the line `$x=2$`; `$f(z) = iz^2-3$`
    
    b) the circular arc `$|z| =2$`, `$0 \leq {\rm arg}(z) \leq \frac\pi2$`; `$f(z) = \frac14 e^{i\frac\pi4} z^2$`
    

3. Use formula (14) from the textbook to find the value of the given principal `$n$`th root function at the given value of `$z$`. 
    
    a) `$z^\frac12$`, `$z= 2+i$`

    b) `$z^\frac13$`, `$z= -1$` 

    c) `$z^\frac15$`, `$z= -1 + \sqrt3i$`

4. Find the image of the given set under the principal square root mapping `$w = z^\frac12$`. Represent the mapping by drawing the set and its image.

    a) the ray `${\rm arg}(z) = - \frac23 \pi$`

    b) the arc `$|z| = 9$`, `$ -\frac\pi2 \leq {\rm arg}(z) \leq \pi$`
    
    c) the parabola `$x = \frac{y^2}{10} - \frac52$`


5. Find three sets in the complex plane that map onto the set `${\rm arg}(w) = \pi$` under the mapping `$w = z^4$`.

6. Discuss what is the value of the principal square root function at $z = 0$?



## Resources

- Check the textbook.

- Explore the Internet.



## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.






