---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  f5c8df96-a1fe-4a93-b8bd-d9dccb9f2f8d:
    content_type: application/pdf
    description: Course introduction
id: 342f4e99-aee6-4f34-bd0c-931a238dee8e
language: en
modified: '2019-05-19T05:35:29.507068Z'
title: Analytic functions (basic)
title_id: analytic-functions-basic
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Terminology 
- derivative
- differentiable
- analytic at a point
- analytic in/on  a domain
- entire function
- singular point
- Cauchy-Riemann equations



## Theorems

- rules of differentiation
  - constant rules
  - sum rule
  - product rule
  - quotient rule
  - chain rule
  - power rule
  - power rule for functions
- analycity of polynomial and rational functions
- analycity of sum, product and quotient
- criterion for non-analycity (using Cauchy-Riemann conditions)
- a sufficient condition for analycity (using Cauchy-Riemann conditions)



## Comments

The calculus of complex functions deals with the "usual" concepts of derivatives and integrals of these functions. Since differentiation and integration are based on underlying  limits of complex functions that are close to limits of functions of several variables one might expect that the differential and integral calculus of complex functions will resemble that of functions of several variables.  Starting with this challenge we will discover that things are quite different for complex functions. 





## Challenge

1. Use Definition 3.1 in the textbook to find `$f'(z)$` for the given function.

    a) `$f(z) = iz^3 - 7z^2$`

    b) `$ f(z) = \frac1z$`
    
2. Us the alternative definition (12) from the textbook to find `$f'(z)$` for the given function.

    a) `$f(z) = z^4 -z^2$`

    b) `$f(z) = \frac1{2iz}$`
    
3. Use the rules of differentiation to find `$f'(z)$` for the given function.

    a) `$f(z) = z^2 + i$`

    b) `$f(z) = i/z$`

    c) `$f(z) = -5iz^2 + \frac{2+i}{z^2}$`

3. Determine whether `$f(z)$` is analytic (in an appropriate domain) and find its derivative if it is.

    a) `$f(z) = |z|$`
  
    b) `$f(z) = y + ix$`
  
    c) `$f(z) = \bar{z}$`
  
    d) `$f(z) = z^2 + 1 + i$`
  
    e) `$f(z) = 2x + y - i(x - 2y)$`
  
    f) `$f(z) = 3x^2y - y^3 + i(3xy^2 - x^3)$`
  
    g) `$f(z) = e^{-x}(\cos{y} - i\sin{y})$`
   
   



## Resources

- Check the textbook.


- Explore the Internet.


## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.






