---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  6803de81-2784-4300-9adf-3a0f2d7698d5:
    content_type: image/png
    description: infinity
id: 3885ac38-15fd-4390-a6cf-bd6712ef0af6
language: en
modified: '2019-07-04T07:44:42.092365Z'
title: Zeros and Poles
title_id: zeros-and-poles
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

We can divide isolated singularities into three types - removable, poles and essential. Their classification helps us to understand how "good or bad" the singularity is. Moreover, we introduce a relation between poles and zeros of analytic functions. 


## Terminology

- removable singularity
- pole
- pole of order `$n$`, simple pole
- essential singularity
- zero
- zero of order `$n$`, simple zero
- meromorphic function



## Theorems

- Zero of order `$n$` iff `$(z-z_0)^n \phi(z)$`
- Pole of order `$n$` iff `$\displaystyle \frac{\phi(z)}{(z-z_0)^n}$`
- Poles of fractions `$f(z) = \displaystyle \frac{g(z)}{h(z)}$`



## Comments

It is important to understand how to "remove" the removable singularities  and how to find the order of poles using zeros of the functions in play. 


## Challenge

1. Show that `$z= 0$`  is a removable singularity of `$\displaystyle f(z) = \frac{ \sin 4z - 4z}{z^2}$`. Supply a definition of `$f(0)$` so that `$f$` is analytic at `$z=0$`. 

2. Determine the zeros  and their order for the given function.

    a) `$f(z) = z^4 - 16$`
    
    b) `$f(z) = ze^z -z $`

3. Determine the order of the poles for each function

   a)  `$\displaystyle{f(z)=\frac{1}{z(z-1)}}$`
   
   b)  `$\displaystyle{f(z)=\frac{z+3}{(z+2)^3(z-i)^5}}$`
   
   c)  `$\displaystyle{f(z)=\frac{e^z}{z^2}}$`
   
   d)  `$\displaystyle{f(z)=\frac{e^z-1}{z^2}}$`

4. An interensting theorem, known as **Picard's theorem**, states that in any arbitrarily small neighborhood of an isolaated essential singularity `$z_0$`, an analytic function `$f$` assumes every finite complex value, with one exception, an infinitely number of times. Since `$z= 0$` is an isolated essential singularity of `$f(z) = e^{\frac1z}$`, find an infinite number of `$z$` in any neighborhood of `$z= 0$` for which `$f(z)= i$`. What is the one exception? That is, what is the one value that `$ f(z)=  e^{\frac1z}$` does not take on?


## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Explanation by Michael Barrus](https://youtu.be/xZ0S8Ywwc9o)


- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.

