---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: 3cc3434e-ee6c-4164-bfdd-9571079555d3
language: en
modified: '2019-09-02T04:39:14.688404Z'
title: LAF - Introduction to determinants
title_id: laf-introduction-to-determinants
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

Determinant is often described as a "magic" number assigned to each square matrix. This is because it contains the most important piece of information about the matrix. As you will see the magic has a good reason behind it. In this challenge you will learn (a) a definition of determinant for an `$n\times n$` matrix, (b) how to calculate it and (c) the properties of determinants that allow us to calculate it even easier. 



## Terminology

- the determinant of an `$n\times n$` matrix
- `$(i,j)$`-minor of a matrix
- `$(i,j)$`-cofactor of a matrix
- cofactor expansion along a row or a column

 

## Theorems

- special method for calculating the determinant of a `$3\times 3$` matrix
- Laplace Expansion Theorem
- determinant of a triangular matrix
- properties of determinants


## Key points

- determinants are the "volume" scaling factors of linear transformations 
- "recursive" definition of `$n\times n$` determinant
- calculating determinants using Laplaces Expansion Theorem
- calculating determinants using row reduction


## Challenge

1.  Compute the determinants using cofactor expansion along any row or column that seems convenient.

    a) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 5 & 2 & 2 \\ -1 & 1 & 2 \\ 3 & 0 & 0  \end{vmatrix} $`

    b)  `$ \begin{vmatrix} a & b & 0 \\ 0 & a & b \\ a & 0 & b \end{vmatrix}$`

    c) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 0 & 0 & 0 & a \\ 0 & 0 & b & c \\ 0 & d & e & f \\ g & h & i & j \end{vmatrix}$`

2. Compute the indicated `$3\times 3$` determinants using the method of Example 4.9 from textbook.

    a) `$\begin{vmatrix} 1 & 2 & 3 \\ -4 & 0 & 4 \\ -3 & -2 & -1 \end{vmatrix} $`

    b) `$\begin{vmatrix} a & b & 0 \\ 0 & a & b \\ a & 0 & b \end{vmatrix}$`

3. Evaluate the given determinant using elementary row and/or column operations and Theorem 4.3 to reduce the matrix to row echelon form.

    a)  `$ \begin{vmatrix} 1 & 0 & 3 \\ 5 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 & 2  \end{vmatrix} $`

    b)  `$ \begin{vmatrix} 0 & 2 & 3&1 \\ 1 & 3 &2&1 \\ 0 & 2 & 1& 1 \\ 1&0&1&0  \end{vmatrix} $`


4.  Use properties of determinants to evaluate the given determinant by inspection. Explain your reasoning.

    a) `$\begin{vmatrix} 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 3 & 0 & -2 \\ 2 & 2 & 2 \end{vmatrix} $` 

    b) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 3 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & -2 & 5 \\ 0 & 0 & 4 \end{vmatrix} $` 

    c) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 5 & 2 \\ 3 & -1 & 4 \end{vmatrix} $`  

    d) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 2 & 3 & -4 \\ 1 & -3 & -2 \\ -1 & 5 & 2 \end{vmatrix} $`   

    e) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 1 & 2 & 3 \\ 0 & 4 & 1 \\ 1 & 6 & 4 \end{vmatrix} $`    

    f) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 1& 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0& 0 & 1 & 0 \\0& 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0&0&0&1 \end{vmatrix} $`  

    g) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 0& 2 & 0 & 0 \\ -3& 0 & 0 & 0 \\0& 0 & 0 & 4 \\ 0&0&1&0 \end{vmatrix} $`  

    h) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 1& 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 0& 1 & 0 & 1 \\ 1& 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0&0&1&1 \end{vmatrix} $`



5.  Find the determinants assuming that `$\begin{vmatrix} a & b & c \\ d & e & f \\ g & h & i \end{vmatrix} = 4$`.

    a)  `$\displaystyle \begin{vmatrix} d & e & f \\ a & b & c \\ g & h & i \end{vmatrix}$`

    b)  `$\displaystyle \begin{vmatrix} 3a & -b & 2c \\ 3d & -e & 2f \\ 3g & -h & 2i \end{vmatrix} $`




## Resources

- Check textbook

- [The essence of determinants by 3blue1brown](https://youtu.be/Ip3X9LOh2dk)

- [Determinant of a `$3\times3$` matrix explained by Khan Academy](https://youtu.be/0c7dt2SQfLw)

- [Calculating determinant of an `$n\times n$` matrix using Laplaces Expansion Theorem by Khan Academy](https://youtu.be/H9BWRYJNIv4)

- [Calculating determinant using row reduction by TheTrevTutor](https://youtu.be/IjMxFP8AtpA) 


- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from an immediate explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.




