---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: 405114c1-7fbb-4e1a-a342-eb5039b691af
language: en
modified: '2019-09-02T06:25:25.81087Z'
title: LAF - Introduction to Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors
title_id: laf-introduction-to-eigenvalues-and-eigenvectors
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

In this challenge we introduce the concept of  an eigenvalue and an eigenvector for an `$n\times n$` matrix. As we will experience ourselves,  these simple notions carry the most important pieces of information about a matrix. The so called "eigenvalue problem", i.e., the problem of finding eigenvalues and eigenvectors, has many applications in a broad spectrum of fields.   



## Terminology

- eigenvalue
- eigenvector
- eigenspace


## Key points

- eigenvectors are scaled by eigenvalues 
- only a nonzero vector can be an eigenvector
- eigenvalues are the solutions of `${\rm det}(A-\lambda I) =0$`
- eigenvectors  form a basis of the null space of `$A-\lambda I$`

## Challenge

1. Show that `$\bf v$` is an eigenvector of the matrix `$A$` and find the corresponding eigenvalue.

    a) `$A = \left[\begin{array}{cc} 0 & 3 \\ 3 & 0 \end{array} \right]$`, `$ {\bf v} = \left[\begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$`
    
    b) `$A = \left[\begin{array}{ccr} 0 & 1 & -1 \\ 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 1& 2 &0 \end{array} \right]$`, `$ {\bf v} = \left[\begin{array}{r} -2\\ 1 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$`

2. Show that `$\lambda$` is an eigenvalue of the matrix `$A$` and find one eigenvector corresponding to this eigenvalue.

    a) `$A = \left[\begin{array}{cc} 0 & 4 \\ -1 & 5 \end{array} \right]$`, `$ \lambda =1$`
    
    b) `$A = \left[\begin{array}{ccr} 1 & 0 & 2 \\ -1 & 1 & 1 \\ 2& 0 & 1 \end{array} \right]$`, `$ \lambda = -1$` 
    
3.  Find the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of `$A$` geometrically.

    a)  `$A = \left[\begin{array}{rr} -1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{array} \right]$` (reflection in the `$y$`-axis)

    b)  `$A = \left[\begin{array}{rr} 0 & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{array} \right]$` (counterclockwise rotation of `$90$` degrees about the origin)

4. Use the method of Example 4.5 in the textbook to find all of the eigenvalues of the matrix `$A$`. Give bases for each of the corresponding eigenspaces. 

    a) `$A = \left[\begin{array}{cc} 2 & 4 \\ 6 & 0 \end{array} \right]$`
    
    b) `$A = \left[\begin{array}{rc} 1 & 2 \\ -2 & 3 \end{array} \right]$`

## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Explanation by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/4wTHFmZPhT0)


- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from an immediate explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.




