---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: 4b372d33-399f-4506-90dd-89db1cb990ae
language: en
modified: '2019-05-14T04:13:32.54558Z'
title: 'Limits '
title_id: limits
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Terminology 
- limit of a real function of a single variable
- limit of a complex function
- epsilon-delta proof of a limit
- limit of a real function of two variables
- real and imaginary parts of a limit
- complex constant function
- complex identity function
 


## Theorems
- criterion for the nonexistence of a limit
- properties of limits (real, complex)
- limits of complex constant and identity functions



## Comments

The most important concept of elementary calculus is that of the limit. All the useful tools like continuity, differentiation or integration are based on some limit. As we explore the notion of limit for complex functions is closer to the limit of functions of several variables rather than the ones of a single variable. A good knowledge of limits of functions of several variables is vital! 

## Challenge



1. Use Theroem 2.1 from the textbook and the properties of real limits on page 115 to ecompute the given complex limit.

   a)  `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to 3i}} z^2 + 1$`
   
   b)  `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to 1+i}} \frac{z - \overline z}{z + \overline z} $`
   
   c) `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to \pi i }} e^z$`

2. Use Theorem 2.2 and the basic limits (15) from the textbook to compute the given complex limit.

    a) `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to 1+i}} \frac{z^2 +1}{z^2-1}$`
    
    b) `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to e^{i\frac\pi4}}} \left( z + \frac1z\right)$`
    
    c) `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to i}} \frac{z^4 -1}{z - i}$`

3. Show that the following limits do not exist.

    a) `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to 0}} \frac{z}{|z|}$` 
    
    b) `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to 0}} \frac{\mathrm{Re}(z) \mathrm{Im}(z)}{{|z|}^2}$` 
    
    c) `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to 0}} {({z}/{\bar{z}})}^2$` 
    
    d) `$\displaystyle{\lim_{z \to 0}} \frac{\mathrm{Re}(z)^2 + \mathrm{Im}(z)}{\mathrm{Im}(z)}$` 
    
    







## Resources

- Check the textbook.

- Explore the Internet.


## Tips

- You learn more from trying and failing that from explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.

