---
extra_resources: {}
topics: []
editor_id: github.NanoScaleDesign
modified: 2020-07-27T02:24:33.660233015Z
affiliated_institute:
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: 九州大学
version: '1.0'
title_id: question-creation-mass-transfer-2020
language: en
id: 510862b4-984d-47e9-a936-8914f01628e7
translations: {}
title: Question creation (Mass Transfer 2020)

---

**Note: This is a Coursework challenge and will count towards your final grade**

## Comments
Creating a question requires a deeper understanding than answering a question. This challenge takes advantage of this.

This challenge uses the PeerWise platform. To register, go to https://peerwise.cs.auckland.ac.nz/at/?kyushu_u_jp and register. Access the course “Mass Transfer (2020)” and enter the following information:

- Course ID = **21719**
- Identifier = Your student ID

Once you have logged in, select the “Mass Transfer (2020)” course, then under “Your questions” click “view”. You can then click “Create new question” or view other questions by clicking “view” under “Unanswered questions”.

There is more detailed information about usage here: https://peerwise.cs.auckland.ac.nz/docs/students/.


## Challenge

**a)** Create an original question concerning chapters *14.6* or *14.7* in the book, using the Peerwise platform. Ideally, your question will test understanding as well as calculation ability.

**b)** Enter 5 plausible solutions A-E for the student to check their answer.

**c)** In the solution section, show clearly why the correct answer is correct. Demonstrate your thinking clearly with words and mathematics.

Since this is a coursework challenge, points will be awarded for the quality (detail, accuracy, imagination) of the question and solutions. If you make more than one question, the best question will be chosen for awarding marks.

## Resources

- Sections 14.6 to 14.7 of Principles of Heat and Mass Transfer by F. Incropera et. al., 7th edition

## Solution Form
You may mark this challenge as complete by simply rating the difficulty.