---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: 5cec5cbb-2820-47c0-b6ac-a8e38e39af34
language: en
modified: '2019-05-19T06:55:02.955266Z'
title: Continuity
title_id: continuity
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Terminology 
- continuity of a real function of a single variable
- continuity of a complex function
- criteria for continuity at a point
- continuous on a set `$S$`
- continuity of a real function of two variables
- branches, principal branch
- branch cuts and points

 


## Theorems
- complex function is continuous iff both real and imaginary parts are continuous
- algebraic properties of continuous function
- continuity of polynomial functions
- continuity of rational functions
- bounding property 



## Comments

Continuity is a basic function property and depends on the existence of a certain limit. We will show
that continity in complex plane is sometimes quite confusing property.



## Challenge



1. Show that the function `$f$` is continuous at the given point `$z_0$`.

   a)  `$\displaystyle f(z) = z^3 - \frac1z$`; `$z_0 = 3i$`
   
   b)  `$\displaystyle f(z) = \left\{ \displaystyle\begin{array}{cl}\displaystyle \frac{z^3 -1}{z-1} & |z| = \not 1 \\ 3 & |z| = 1 \end{array} \right. $`; `$ z_0 = 1$`
   
   c) `$\displaystyle f(z) = \frac{{\rm Re}(z)}{z + iz} - 2z^2$`; `$ z_0 = e^{i \frac\pi4}$`

2. Show that the function `$f$` is discontinuous at the given point.

    a)  `$\displaystyle f(z) = {\rm Arg}(iz) $`; `$ z_0 = i$`
    
    b) `$\displaystyle f(z) = \left\{ \displaystyle\begin{array}{cl}\displaystyle \frac{z^3 -1}{z-1} & |z| = \not 1 \\ 3 & |z| = 1 \end{array} \right. $`; `$ z_0 = i$`
  

3. Consider the multi-valued function `$F(z) = z^\frac13$` that assigns to `$z$` the set of three cube roots of `$z$`. Explicitly define three distinct branches `$f_1$`, `$f_2$` and `$f_3$` of `$F$`, all of which have the nonnegative real axis as a branch cut. 
    
    







## Resources

- Check the textbook.

- Explore the Internet.


## Tips

- You learn more from trying and failing that from explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.

