---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  f5c8df96-a1fe-4a93-b8bd-d9dccb9f2f8d:
    content_type: application/pdf
    description: Course introduction
id: 634f98f8-a451-42ad-970d-f3d0355d939a
language: en
modified: '2019-05-28T04:47:47.563961Z'
title: Harmonic functions
title_id: harmonic-functions
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Terminology 
- Laplace's equation in two variables
- Laplacian of a function
- harmonic function
- harmonic conjugate function



## Theorems

- real and imaginary parts of an analytic function are harmonic functions


## Comments

The real and imaginary parts of analytic functions have to quite special.





## Challenge

1.  Verify that `$u(x,y)$` is harmonic and find its harmonic conjugate `$v(x,y)$` such that `$f(z) = u(x,y)+iv(x,y)$` satisfies the indicated condition. 

    a) `$u(x,y) = x$` and `$f(1+i)=1$`
    
    b) `$u(x,y)=y^3-3x^2y$` and `$f(1+i)=-2+3i$`
    
    c)  `$u(x,y)=x^2 - y^2$` and  `$f(1+i)=-3i$`
    
2. Suppose `$f(z) = u(r, \theta) + i v(r,\theta) $` is analytic in a domain `$D$` not containing the origin(Why?). Use the polar form of Cauchy-Riemann equations in the form `$r u_r = v_\theta$` and `$ r v_r = - u_\theta$` to show that `$u(r, \theta)$` satisfies Laplace's equation in  polar coordinates: `$$ r^2 \frac{\partial ^2 u}{\partial^2 r} + r \frac{\partial u}{\partial r} + \frac{\partial ^2 u}{\partial^2 \theta} = 0.$$`
    
3. Verify that the given function `$u$` is harmonic in a domain `$D$` not containing the origin.

    a) `$u(r,\theta) =  r^3 \cos 3\theta$`
    
    b) `$\displaystyle u(r, \theta) = \frac{ 10r^2 - \sin 2\theta}{r^2}$` 

4. Construct an example accompanied by a brief explanation that illustrates the following fact: *If `$v$` is a harmonic conjugate of `$u$` in some domain `$D$`, then `$u$` is, in general, not a harmonic conjugate of `$v$`.*
   



## Resources

- Check the textbook.


- Explore the Internet.


## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.






