---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: 68222b65-7828-427a-a6f5-80a2f71a61ac
language: en
modified: '2019-04-02T03:44:03.024144Z'
title: Sets of Points in the Complex Plane (advanced)
title_id: sets-of-points-in-the-complex-plane-advanced
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---



## Comments

To play with sets in real or complex plain is fun. Mathematitians have a whole discipline called **topology**, where one can loose their mind. On the other hand it might give you a better insight in the definitions if you try some of these challenges. Defend your answer with sound mathematics.

## Challenge



1.  Consider the disk centerd at `$z_0$` defined by `$|z - z_0 | \leq \rho$`. Demonstrate that this set is bounded by finding an `$R> 0$` so that all points `$z$` in the disk satisfy `$|z| < R$`.   

2.  Consider the set `$S$` of points in the complex plane defined by `$\{ \frac{i}n\}$`, `$ n= 1,2,3,\dots$`. Discuss which of the following terms apply to `$S$`: boundary, open, closed, connected, bounded

3.  Consier a finite set `$S$` of compex numbers `$\{z_1, z_2, \dots, z_n\}$`. Discuss whether `$S$` is necessarily bounded. 

4.  A set `$S$` is said to be **convex** if each pair of points `$P$` and `$Q$` in `$S$` can be joined by a line segment `$\overline{PQ}$` such that every point on the line segment also lies in `$S$`. Determine which of the sets `$S$` in the complex plane defined by the following conditions are convex.
 
    a) `$|z - 2 +i| < 3$`
   
    b) `$1 <  |z| < 2$`

    c) `$ y< x^2 $`

5. Is a convex set necessarily connected? Is a connected set necessarily convex?



## Resources

- Check the textbook.

- Go back to previous challenges.

- Explore the Internet.


## Tips

- You learn more from trying and failing that from explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.



