---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.NanoScaleDesign
extra_resources: {}
id: 69409c44-a9aa-4b7b-90cc-515ce375439e
language: en
modified: '2019-11-25T00:01:08.378125Z'
title: Question creation (ODE I)
title_id: question-creation-ode-i
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Comments
Creating a question requires a deeper understanding than answering a question. This challenge takes advantage of this.

*Note: This is an optional challenge. Please ensure you have completed all the other challenges in the course before undertaking this challenge. Even if you do not have time to complete this challenge, there is still value in logging into the platform below to try to answer questions created by others.*

This challenge uses the PeerWise platform. To register, go to https://peerwise.cs.auckland.ac.nz/at/?kyushu_u_jp and register. Access the course “ODE I” and enter the following information:

- Course ID = (given in class)
- Identifier = Your student ID

Once you have logged in, select the “ODE I” course, then under “Your questions” click “view”. You can then click “Create new question” or view other questions by clicking “view” under “Unanswered questions”.

There is more detailed information about usage here: https://peerwise.cs.auckland.ac.nz/docs/students/.


## Challenge

**a)** Create an original question concerning anything covered in ODE I using the Peerwise platform. Ideally, your question will test understanding as well as calculation ability.

Please enter 5 plausible solutions A-E for the student to check their answer. In the solution section, provide a brief solution outlining why the correct answer is correct. It does not need to show every step but should give enough information for people to understand exactly how you think the question should be solved.

**b)** Solve at least one other question on the peerwise platform. Do you agree with the proposed answer and solution?

## Resources

- Your ODE I course notes

## Solution Form
You may mark the challenge as complete by simply rating the difficulty.
