---
extra_resources: {}
topics: []
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
modified: 2020-05-04T07:48:27.119477262Z
affiliated_institute:
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: 九州大学
version: '1.0'
title_id: lai-row-reduced-form
language: en-gb
id: 8fec3e29-9597-49f4-8b06-3ee0c7fd9e64
translations: {}
title: LAI -  Row Reduced Form

---

## Intro

The advantages of using augmented matrix instead of a system of linear equations  are abundant in calculations. We already saw the streamlining and effectivity of such calculations. Computers also work with augmented matrices rather than systems of linear equations. Moreover, we can change one augmented matrix into another (without changing the solution set) if we use only elementary row operations. And as we learn today, some augmented matrices are "better" than others. We discover that while learning about **row reduced echelon form** (RREF) of a matrix.
  
## Online learning

Chapter - Vectors and Matrices

- Section - Row-Reduced Form


## Terminology

- reduced row echelon form (RREF) of a matrix
- pivot
- row reduction algorithm (Gauss-Jordan elimination)
- free vs dependent variables
- rows and columns of a matrix
- `$m \times n$` matrix 
- size of a matrix
- fields (integers, rational numbers, real numbers, complex numbers, integers modulo prime)

## Key points

- know the 4 rules of RREF and be able to recognize when matrix is in RREF
- any matrix can be row reduced to RREF using elementary row operations
- be able to row reduce a matrix to its RREF
- keep written notes on the row operations as you calculate
- RREF is unique
- know how to interpret matrix in RREF, i.e., know how to easily find the set of solutions from RREF of a matrix
- relation between the number of pivots (dependent variables), free variables and number of columns  of a matrix (variables)
- any system of linear equations has either no solution, unique solution or infinitely many solutions (proof later)



## Exercises

1. Determine whether the given matrix is in RREF. If not, use row reduce it to RREF.

    a) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrr} 1&0&1\\ 0&0&3\\ 0&1&0 \end{array}\right]$`
    
    b) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrr} 1&2&3\\ 1&0&0\\ 0&1&0\\0&0&1 \end{array}\right]$`
    
    c) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrr} 1&0&1&1&1\\ 0&0&3&0&0\\ 0&0&0&0&0 \end{array}\right]$`
    
    
2. Use elementary row operations to reduce the given matrix to its RREF form.

    a) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrr} 2&-4&-2&6\\ 3&1&6&6 \end{array}\right]$`
    
    b) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrr} 3&-2&1\\ 2&-1&-1\\ 4&-3&-1 \end{array}\right]$`

3. What is wrong with the following "proof" that every matrix with at least two rows is row equivalent to a matrix with a zero row?

Perform `$R_2 + R_1$` and `$R_1 + R_2$`. Now rows 1 and 2 are identical. Now perform `$R_2 - R_1$` to obtain a matrix with a zero row.

4. Students frequently perform the following type of calculation to introduce a zero into a matrix:
 `$$\left[\begin{array}{rr} 3&1\\2&4 \end{array}\right] \to 3R_2 - 2R_1 \to \left[\begin{array}{rr} 3&1\\0&10 \end{array}\right]$$`
However, `$3R_2 - 2 R_1$` is *not* an elementary row operation. Why not? Show how to achieve the same results using elementary row operations.     

5. We define the **rank** of a matrix as the number of nonzero rows in its reduced row echelon form. What is the relation between the number of pivots and the rank for a given matrix?

6. What is the rank of each matrix of the matrices in exercises 1 and 2?

7. Solve the given system of equations using Gauss-Jordan elimination.
    a) `$$ x_1 + 2x_2 - 3x_3 = 9\\ 2x_1-x_2+x_3 =0\\ 3x_1 - x_2 -2 x_3=9$$`

    b) `$$ x - y+z = 0\\ -x+3y+z =5\\ 3x+y+7z=2$$`

    c) `$$ 2r+s= 3\\ 4r+s = 7\\ 2r+5s = -1$$`

8. For what value(s) of `$k$`, if any, will the systems have (a) no solution, (b) a unique solution, and (c) infinitely many solutions.

    a) `$$x+ky =1\\ kx+ y =1$$`

    b) `$$x-2y + 3z = 2\\ x+y+z = k\\ 2x-y + 4z = k^2$$ `


9. What are the sizes of the matrices in exercises 1 and 2?



## Resources

-  Linear Algebra A modern introduction (4th edition) by David Poole 

- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from someone elses explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.






