---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: a540fc63-8ce3-465c-9a6c-de971309e40e
language: en
modified: '2020-01-08T08:49:07.281175Z'
title: LAF - Linear Transformations from V to W
title_id: laf-linear-transformations-from-v-to-w
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

We have already seen linear transformations from `$\mathbb R^n$` to `$\mathbb R^m$` in the first semester. At that time, we showed that every linear transformation is a matrix transformation and vice-versa. Hence, we could use the properties of matrices to show lots of interesting and useful things about linear transformations. In fact, as we discover in this challenge, the linear transformations from `$V$` to `$W$` are just a further generalizations of the matrix transformations and their behavior and properties follow that of matrices.


## Terminology

- linear transformation
- zero transformation
- identity transformation
- composition
- invertible, inverse
- kernel
- range
- rank
- nullity
- one-to-one
- onto
- isomorphism, isomorphic
 

## Theorems

- properties of linear transformations
- linear transformation maps spanning sets onto spanning sets 
- composition of linear transformations is a linear transformation
- kernel and range are subspaces
- The Rank Theorem
- linear transformation is one-to-one iff ker`$(T)=\{\bf 0\}$`
- If dim`$V =$` dim `$W$`, then linear transformation `$T: V \to W$` is one-to-one iff it is onto.
- one-to-one linear transformations map linearly independent sets onto linearly independent sets
- If dim`$V =$` dim `$W$`, then one-to-one linear transformation `$T: V \to W$` maps basis onto basis.
- Linear transformation is invertible iff it is one-to-one and onto. 
- Two finite dimensional vector spaces are isomorphic iff they have the same dimension.


## Key points

- linear transformations are generalization of matrix transformations with all of its benefits
- there is an interconnection between rank/nullity (range/kernel) and onto/one-to-one properties
- If dim`$V =$` dim `$W$`, then one-to-one linear transformation `$T: V \to W$` maps basis onto basis.
- Linear transformation is invertible iff it is one-to-one and onto.
- Finite dimensional vector spaces of the same dimension `$n$` are all the same! (i.e., all same as `$\mathbb R^n$`)



## Challenge

1. Determine whether `$T$` is a linear transformation. 

    a) `$T:M_{nn}\to M_{nn}$` defined by `$T(A) = AB$`, where `$B$` is a fixed `$n\times n$` matrix

    b) `$T:M_{nn} \to \mathbb R$` defined by `$T(A) = {\rm tr}(A)$`

    c) `$T:\mathcal P_2 \to \mathcal P_2$` defined by `$T(a+ bx + cx^2) = a + b(x+1) + b(x+1)^2$`

2. Let `$T:\mathbb R^2 \to \mathbb R^3$` be a linear transformation for which `$T\left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 0 \end{array}\right] =\left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 2\\-1 \end{array}\right] \ {\rm and } \ T\left[\begin{array}{r} 0 \\ 1 \end{array}\right] =\left[\begin{array}{r} 3 \\ 0\\4 \end{array}\right].$` Find `$T\left[ \begin{array}{r} 5 \\ 2 \end{array} \right] $` and `$T\left[ \begin{array}{r} a \\ b \end{array} \right] $`.

3. Let `$T:V\to V$` be a linear transformation such that `$T\circ T = T$`. 

    a) Show that `$\{{\bf v}, T({\bf v})\}$` is linearly dependent if and only if `$T({\bf v}) = {\bf v}$` or `$T({\bf v}) = {\bf 0}$`.

    b) Give an example of such a linear transformation with `$V = \mathbb R^2$`.

4. Let `$T:M_{22} \to M_{22}$` be the linear transformation defined by `$T\left[ \begin{array}{cc} a & b \\ c & d \end{array} \right]  = \left[ \begin{array}{cc} a & 0 \\ 0 & d \end{array} \right] .$`

    a) Which, if any, of the following matrices are in `${\rm ker}(T)$`?
`$${\rm(i)} \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 1 & 2 \\ -1 & 3 \end{array} \right]\ \ {\rm(ii)}\ \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 0 & 4 \\ 2 & 0 \end{array} \right]  \ \ {\rm (iii)} \ \ \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 3 & 0 \\ 0 & -3 \end{array} \right] $$` 

    b) Which, if any, of the  matrices in part a) are in `${\rm range}(T)$`?

    c) Describe `${\rm ker}(T)$` and `${\rm range}(T)$`.

5. Let `$T:M_{22} \to \mathbb R$` be the linear transformation defined by `$T(A) = {\rm tr}A$`.

    a) Which, if any, of the following matrices are in `${\rm ker}(T)$`?
`$${\rm(i)} \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 1 & 2 \\ -1 & 3 \end{array} \right]\ \ {\rm(ii)}\ \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 0 & 4 \\ 2 & 0 \end{array} \right]  \ \ {\rm (iii)} \ \ \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 1 & 3 \\ 0 & -1 \end{array} \right] $$` 

    b) Which, if any, of the  following scalars are  in  in `${\rm range}(T)$`?
`$${\rm(i)}\ 0\ \ {\rm(ii)}\ 2  \ \ {\rm (iii)} \ \ \sqrt{2}/2 $$`

    c) Describe `${\rm ker}(T)$` and `${\rm range}(T)$`.

6. Find either the nullity or the rank of `$T$` and then use the Rank Theorem to find the other.

    a) `$T:M_{22} \to \mathbb R^2$` defined by `$T\left[ \begin{array}{cc} a & b \\ c & d \end{array} \right]  = \left[ \begin{array}{c} a - b \\ c - d \end{array} \right]$` 

    b) `$T:\mathcal P_2 \to \mathbb R^2$` defined by  `$T(p(x)) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} p(0) \\ p(1) \end{array} \right]$`

    c) `$T:M_{33} \to M_{33}$` defined by `$T(A) = A - A^T$` 

7. Determine whether the linear transformations `$T$` from the  exercise 6  are (i) one-to-one and (ii) onto.

8. Determine, whether `$V$` and `$W$` are isomorphic. If they are, give an explicit isomorphism `$T:V\to W$`.
    a) `$V = D_3$` (diagonal `$3\times 3$` matrices), `$W = \mathbb R^3$`

    b) `$V = \mathcal P_2$`, `$W = \{ p(x) \ {\rm in } \ \mathcal P_3:\ p(0) = 0 \}$`

    c) `$V = \mathbb C$`, `$W = \mathbb R^2$`

    d) `$V = \mathcal C[0,1]$`, `$W = \mathcal C[0,2]$`

9. Let `$S: V \to W$` and `$T: U \to V$` be linear transformations.

    a) Prove that if `$S\circ T$` is one-to-one, so is `$T$`.

    b) Prove that if `$S\circ T$` is onto, so is `$S$`.






## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Linear transformations and matrices by 3Blue1Brown](https://youtu.be/kYB8IZa5AuE)
 



- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from an immediate explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.






