---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.NanoScaleDesign
extra_resources: {}
id: a8d7908b-debc-45f3-b759-585fa86261d1
language: en
modified: '2019-05-20T00:06:49.914674Z'
title: Question creation (particles)
title_id: question-creation-particles
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Comments
This challenge uses the PeerWise platform. To register, go to https://peerwise.cs.auckland.ac.nz/at/?kyushu_u_jp and register. Access the course “Mechanics - Particles (Spring 2019)” and enter the following information:

- Course ID = (given in class)
- Identifier = Your student ID

Once you have logged in, select the “Mechanics - Particles (Spring 2019)” course, then under “Your questions” click “view”. You can then click “Create new question” or view other questions by clicking “view” under “Unanswered questions”.

There is more detailed information about usage here: https://peerwise.cs.auckland.ac.nz/docs/students/.


## Challenge

Create an original question concerning anything covered in this chapter using the Peerwise platform. If you create more than one question, the question awarded highest marks will be counted.

Your question must contain the following:

- A diagram to support your question.
- 5 possible answer options (A-E) that can be used by the student to check if their answer is correct. These may be numerical, mathematical, word-based or hashes.
- It is important that it is not possible to derive the method from the answer-options that you give.
- All the answer options should be plausible.
- For at least one of your wrong-answer options, ensure that the answer corresponds to a typical mistake that a student might make when answering your question.
- In the question solution, explain why the student might have chosen that wrong answer, and explain where they may have gone wrong in their thinking.
- Provide a detailed solution to your question, including **explanation** and **mathematics**. *Demonstrate your own thinking and understanding.*

## Resources

- Section 4 of Engineering Mechanics Dynamics by Meriam and Kraig, 6th Edition

## Solution Form
You may mark the challenge as complete by simply rating the difficulty.
