---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  6803de81-2784-4300-9adf-3a0f2d7698d5:
    content_type: image/png
    description: infinity
id: ab12a1a4-c04d-4af3-b48d-0338388a0722
language: en
modified: '2019-06-25T05:12:41.762398Z'
title: Some Consequences of the Integral Formulas
title_id: some-consequences-of-the-integral-formulas
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

In this challenge we take a look at some consequences of Cauchy Integral Formulas. They will be all useful in calculation of for our next challenges.



## Theorems

- Derivative of an Analytic Function Is Analytic 
- Cauchy's Inequality
- Liouville's Theorem
- Fundamental Theroem of Algebra
- Morera's Theorem
- Maximum Modulus Theorem



## Comments

We focus on analytic functions on simply connected domains. Following the Cauchy Integral Formulas it is straightforward to show that analytic functions  have analytic derivatives of all orders.  Moreover analytic functions are not very "flexible" and hence the only bounded entire functions are constants. And more ...


## Challenge

1. Proceed as in example in textbook to find the maximum modulus of `$f(z) = -iz + i$` on the closed circular region `$|z| \leq 5$`.

2. Suppose `$f$` is analytic within and on a circle `$C$` of radius `$r$` with center at `$z_0$`.  Use Cauchy's Integral Formula to obtain `$$ f(z_0)= \frac1{2\pi} \int_0^{2\pi} f(z_0 + re^{i\theta} )d\theta.$$` This result is known as **Gauss' mean-value theorem** and shows that the value of `$f$` at the center `$z_0$` of the circle is the average of all the values of `$f$` on the circumference of `$C$`.

3. Critique the following reasoning:
   Consider the function `$f(z)= z^2 + 5z -1$`  on the closed circular region defined by `$|z| \leq 1$`. It follows from the triangle inequality that `$ |z^2 + 5z -1| \leq |z|^2 + 5 |z| + |-1|$`. Since the maximum modulus of `$f$` occurs on `$|z| = 1$`, the inequality shows that the maximum modulus of `$f(z) = z^2 + 5z -1$` over the region is `$7$`.


## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Explanation of Morera's and Liouville's Theorems  by ritvikmath](https://youtu.be/7pf_dHnueDs)

- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.

