---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.NanoScaleDesign
extra_resources: {}
id: b239d7f5-c247-4d80-8d90-2f207008feac
language: en
modified: '2019-12-25T00:42:51.97134Z'
title: Fourier Analysis coursework (2019)
title_id: fourier-analysis-coursework-2019
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

**- This is a coursework challenge and has the below deadline -**

## Comments
There are many interesting things about Fourier analysis, whether in terms of the mathematics or applications.
This coursework aims to give you the opportunity to follow areas related to your own interest in the subject.


## Coursework task

You have three options (choose _one only_):

1. Obtain data, use your python programming skills (you may use the existing code as a framework) to analyse the data and extract interesting information from it.
2. Explore an area of mathematics related to Fourier analysis that was not covered by the course
3. Explore an area of mathematics related to Fourier analysis that was touched on by the course, but go into further depth.

## Submission requirements

**a**) Either text (guideline: 2 to 4 pages) or video (guideline: 10 minutes)
**b**) A text-based list of references
**c**) In the case of (1) above, the source code used for your analysis.
**d**) In the case of (2) or (3) above, please include challenges with their fully-worked solutions (ie, not just the final answer) (guideline: 2 challenges)

Submission is in two parts:

1. Electronic submission by email. 
2. Except for any video, bring printed copies to the class.

For text-based formats, submission may be in any format, including PDF, LibreOffice, MS Word and Google docs. If you submit a PDF, please also submit the source-files used to generate the PDF. For video-based formats, please provide a link to the video either for viewing or download. Challenges and their solutions should be submitted in written form, even if a video is submitted.

Submission deadline: By email until **Tuesday 21st January 2020 at 22:00**.
Late submissions:
- Within 24 hours: 90% of the mark
- After 24 hours and within 168 hours: 50% of the mark
- Later submissions cannot be accepted

I will confirm in the class that I received your coursework.
If you cannot attend the class, you must request confirmation of receipt when you send the email.


## Assessment

Grades will be awarded on the basis of creativity, demonstration of knowledge, quality of submitted work and accuracy.
