---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: bc0668a3-87d8-4413-bf64-c999ba1518a0
language: en
modified: '2019-11-25T06:51:13.767116Z'
title: LAF - Orthogonality I
title_id: laf-orthogonality-i
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

We already discussed orthogonality of vectors and projection onto a vector. In this challenge we explore the ideas in more general setting. Namely, instead of projecting onto vectors we will be projecting onto vector spaces (imagine a plane in 3D). The main goal will be to decompose each vector into two mutually orthogonal parts. This decomposition plays an important role in many applications, even where "orthogonality" has no geometric meaning.

## Terminology

- dot product
- norm (length)
- orthogonal vectors
- orthogonal sets
- orthogonal basis
- orthonormal sets and orthonormal basis
- orthogonal complement
- fundamental subspaces
- orthogonal projection
- orthogonal component
 

## Theorems

- orthogonal sets of nonzero vectors are linearly independent
- properties of orthogonal complement
- orthogonality of fundamental subspaces
- orthogonal decomposition theorem
- the Gram-Schmidt process



## Key points

- notion of orthogonal and orthonormal basis
- how to normalize an orthogonal basis
- notion of orthogonal complement and its basic properties
- how to find orthogonal complement
- notion of orthogonal projection
- how to apply orthogonal decomposition theorem
- how to find an orthogonal basis using the Gram-Schmidt process



## Challenge

1. Determine which sets of vectors are orthogonal.

  a) `$\left[\begin{array}{r} -3 \\ 1\\2\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} 2 \\4 \\1\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ -1\\2\end{array}\right]$`

  b) `$\left[\begin{array}{r} -1 \\ 2\\1\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} 2 \\-2 \\6\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} 3 \\ 2\\-1\end{array}\right]$`

  c) `$\left[\begin{array}{r} 4 \\ 2\\-5\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} -1 \\2 \\0\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} 2 \\ 1\\2\end{array}\right],\left[\begin{array}{r} -1 \\ 2\\1\end{array}\right]$`

2. Show that the given vectors form an orthogonal basis  for `$\mathbb R^3$`. Find the coordinate vector `$[{\bf w}]_{\mathcal B}$`  of `${\bf w}$` with respect to the basis `$\mathcal{B} = \{ {\bf v}_1, {\bf v}_2, {\bf v}_3\}$` of `$\mathbb R^3$`. (Hint: use the orthogonality!)

  a) `${\bf v}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 0\\-1\end{array}\right]$`, `${\bf v}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 2\\1\end{array}\right]$`, `${\bf v}_3 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ -1\\1\end{array}\right]$` and `${\bf w} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 1\\1\end{array}\right]$`

  b) `${\bf v}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 1\\1\end{array}\right]$`, `${\bf v}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ -1\\0\end{array}\right]$`, `${\bf v}_3 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 1\\-2\end{array}\right]$` and `${\bf w} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 2\\3\end{array}\right]$`

3. Determine whether the given orthogonal set of vectors is orthonormal. If it is not, normalize　the vectors to form an orthonormal set.

  a) `$\left[\begin{array}{r} \frac13 \\ \frac13\\ \frac13\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} -\frac1{\sqrt 2} \\ \frac1{\sqrt{2}} \\ 0\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} \frac12 \\ \frac12\\-1\end{array}\right]$`

  b) `$\left[\begin{array}{r}1 \\ 1\\0\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\-1 \\0\end{array}\right]$`, `$\left[\begin{array}{r} 0 \\ 0\\1\end{array}\right]$`

4. Find the orthogonal complement  `$W^\perp$` of `$W$` and give a basis for `$W^\perp$`. 

  a) `$W = \left\{ \left[\begin{array}{r} x\\y \end{array} \right]: \ 3x+2y = 0\right\}$`

  b) `$W = \left\{ \left[\begin{array}{r} x\\y\\z \end{array} \right]: \ x=t, y=-t, z= 3t\right\}$`

  c) `$W= \left\{ \left[ \begin{array}{r} x \\ y\\z\end{array} \right]: x+y-z = 0\right\}$`


5. Let `$W$` be the subspace spanned by the vectors given below. Find a basis for `$W^\perp$`. (Hint: use the orthogonality of fundamental spaces)

  a) `${\bf w}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\-1\\1\\1 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ {\bf w}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 0\\1\\2\\3 \end{array}\right], $`

  b) `${\bf w}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 3\\2\\0\\-1\\4 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ 
{\bf w}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\2\\-2\\0\\1 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ 
{\bf w}_3 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 3\\-2\\6\\-2\\5 \end{array}\right]$`

6. Find the orthogonal projection of `${\bf v}$` onto the subspace `$W$` spanned by the vectors `${\bf u}_i$`. (You may do not need to verify that the vectors `${\bf u}_i$` are orthogonal.)

  a) `${\bf v} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 2 \\3 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ {\bf u}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\1\\1 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ {\bf u}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\-1\\0 \end{array}\right]$`

  b) `${\bf v} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 4\\-2\\-3\\2 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ {\bf u}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\1\\0\\1 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ {\bf u}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 0\\1\\1\\-1 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ {\bf u}_3 = \left[\begin{array}{r} -1\\0\\1\\1 \end{array}\right]$`

7. Find the orthogonal decomposition of `${\bf v}$` with respect to `$W$`.

  a) `${\bf v} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 3 \\ 2 \\-1 \end{array}\right]$`, `$W = \left(\left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 1 \\1 \end{array}\right]\right)$`

  b)  `${\bf v} = \left[\begin{array}{r} 4 \\ -2 \\3 \end{array}\right]$`, `$W = \left(\left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 2 \\1 \end{array}\right], \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\-1 \\1 \end{array}\right]\right)$`

8. The given vectors form a basis for a subspace `$W$` of `$\mathbb R^3$` or `$\mathbb R^4$`. Apply the Gram-Schmidt Process to obtain an orthogonal basis for `$W$`.

  a) `${\bf x}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 \\ 1 \\0 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ {\bf x}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 3\\4\\2 \end{array}\right]$`

  b) `$ {\bf x}_1 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\2\\-2 \\ 1 \end{array}\right], \ \ \ {\bf x}_2 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\1 \\ 0 \\2 \end{array}\right],  \ \ \ {\bf x}_3 = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\8 \\ 1 \\0 \end{array}\right]$`
  
9. Find an orthogonal basis for `$\mathbb R^4$` that contains the vectors `$ \left[\begin{array}{r} 2\\1\\0\\-1 \end{array}\right], \ \ \  \left[\begin{array}{r} 1\\0\\3\\2\end{array}\right].$`

10. Show that `$ W\cap W^\perp = \{{\bf 0}\}$` for any subspace `$W$` of `$\mathbb R^n$`.

11. Let `$W$` be a subspace of `$\mathbb R^n$`. If `$W = {\rm span}({\bf w}_1, \dots, {\bf w}_k)$`, then `${\bf v}$` is in `$W^\perp$` if and only if `${\bf v} \cdot {\bf w}_i = 0$` for all `$i = 1, \dots, k$`. 

12. Let `$W$` be a subspace of `$\mathbb R^n$` and `${\bf v}$` a vector in `$\mathbb R^n$`. Suppose that `${\bf w}$` and `${\bf w}'$` are orthogonal vectors with `${\bf w}\in W$` and  `${\bf v} = {\bf w} + {\bf w}'$`. Is it necessarily true that `${\bf w}'$` is in `$W^\perp$`? Either prove that it is true or find a counterexample. 

13. Let `$\{{\bf v}_1,\dots,{\bf v}_n\}$` be an orthogonal basis for `$\mathbb R^n$` and let `$W = {\rm span}({\bf v}_1,\dots,{\bf v}_k)$`. Is it necessarily true that `$W^\perp = {\rm span}({\bf v}_{k+1},\dots, {\bf v}_n)$`?  Either prove that it is true or find a counterexample. 




## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Dot Products and Length by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/9oh520TPa44)
 
- [Distance, Angles, Orthogonality and Pythagoras for vectors by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/MKXahTrgVso)

- [Orthogonal bases are easy to work with! by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/FdmppxbMf3g)

- [Orthogonal Decomposition Theorem Part 1: Defining the Orthogonal Complement by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/43b1ltFAwuc)

- [The geometric view on orthogonal projections by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/2dGXQwYDaqU)

- [Orthogonal Decomposition Theorem Part II by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/0EX--joLoiM)
 
- [Using Gram-Schmidt to orthogonalize a basis by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/LXE9NeaLQsc)

- [Full example: using Gram-Schmidt by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/zti01DiImiQ)

- [Proving that orthogonal projections are a form of minimization by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/xJX5Y016ZEU)

- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from an immediate explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.






