---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  f5c8df96-a1fe-4a93-b8bd-d9dccb9f2f8d:
    content_type: application/pdf
    description: Course introduction
id: c15d059d-206e-459d-877b-c6be54bf3a34
language: en
modified: '2019-05-19T06:13:42.364803Z'
title: Analytic functions (advanced)
title_id: analytic-functions-advanced
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---



## Theorems

- alternative definition of `$f'(z)$`
- differentiation implies continuity
- L'Hospital's Rule
- sufficient conditions for differentiability
- Theorem 3.6 from textbook
- Cauchy-Riemann equations in polar coordinates
- a formula for computing `$f'(z)$` (using Cauchy-Riemann conditions in polar coordinates)


## Comments

Now we attempt to fully understand the relation between continuity and differentiability. Moreover, the Cauchy-Riemann conditions reveal first interesting properties of analytic functions.  





## Challenge

1.  Use the alternative definition (12) from the textbook to find `$f'(z)$` for the given function.

    a) `$f(z) = z^4 -z^2$`

    b) `$f(z) = \frac1{2iz}$`
    
2. The function `$f(z) = |z|^2$` is continuous at the origin.

    a) Show that `$f$` is differentiable at the origin.
    
    b) Show that `$f$` is not differentiable at any point `$z = \not  0$`.
    
3. Proceed as in Example 3 in the textbook to show that the  function `$f(z) = \overline z$` is nowhere differentiable.

4. Use L'Hospital's Rule to compute the given limit.

    a) `$\displaystyle \lim_{z\to i} \frac{ z^7 + i}{z^{14} + 1}$`
    
    b)`$\displaystyle \lim_{z \to 1+i} \frac{z^5 + 4z}{z^2 - 2z + 2}$`
    
5.  Suppose `$f(z) = u(x,y) + iv(x,y)$` is analytic. Can `$g(z) = v(x,y) + iu(x,y)$` be analytic?

6. Suppose `$f(z)$` is analytic. Can `$g(z) = \overline{f(z)}$` be analytic?
   
7. We defined the complex exponential function `$f(z) = e^z$` as  `$e^z = e^x \cos y + i e^x \cos y$` for all `$z = x + i y$` in `$\mathbb C$`.    

    a) Show that `$f(z) = e^z$` is an entire function.
    
    b) Show that `$f'(z) = f(z)$`.
    
8. Suppose `$x = r \cos \theta$`, `$ y= r\sin \theta$`, and `$ f(z) = u(z,y) + i v(z,y)$`. Show that 
   `$$ \frac{\partial u}{\partial r} = \frac{ \partial u}{\partial x} \cos \theta + \frac{ \partial u }{\partial  y} \sin \theta, \ \ \ \frac{\partial u}{\partial \theta} = -\frac{ \partial u}{\partial x} r\sin  \theta + \frac{ \partial u }{\partial  y} r\cos \theta $$`
and 
`$$ \frac{\partial v}{\partial r} = \frac{ \partial v}{\partial x} \cos \theta + \frac{ \partial v }{\partial  y} \sin \theta, \ \ \ \frac{\partial v}{\partial \theta} = -\frac{ \partial v}{\partial x} r\sin  \theta + \frac{ \partial v }{\partial  y} r\cos \theta .$$`
Now use the Riemann conditions for `$u_x, u_y, v_x$` and `$v_y$` and deduce the Cauchy-Riemann conditions for `$u_r, u_\theta, v_r$` and `$v_\theta$`.

## Resources

- Check the textbook.


- Explore the Internet.


## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.






