---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  f5c8df96-a1fe-4a93-b8bd-d9dccb9f2f8d:
    content_type: application/pdf
    description: Course introduction
id: c5f2ea95-a354-4e55-9069-08342073bc29
language: en
modified: '2019-06-04T05:00:53.758918Z'
title: Elementary functions (advanced)
title_id: elementary-functions-advanced
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---






## Theorems


- analyticity and derivative of the principal branch of  complex logarithm
- analyticity and derivative  of the principal branch of  complex power function
- analyticity and derivative of complex sine and cosine
- analyticity and derivative of complex hyperbolic sine and cosine
- branches and analycity of inverse trigonometric functions
- branches and analycity of inverse hyperbolic functions





## Comments

To understand the elementary functions better, we take a look at their analyticity and brunch cuts. Moreover, trying to prove some of their basic properties should help you to more familiarize yourself with them.







## Challenge

1. Prove that `$\ln{(z_1 z_2)} = \ln{z_1} + \ln{z_2}$` for all non-zero complex numbers `$z_1$` and `$z_2$`. 

2. Find `$z_1,z_2 \in \mathbb C$` such that `$\operatorname{Ln}(z_1z_2) = \not \operatorname{Ln}z_1 + \operatorname{Ln}z_2$`.


3. Prove that `$a^{z_1} / a^{z_2} = a^{z_1 - z_2}$` for all `$z_1, z_2 \in \mathbb C$`.

4. Find `$z_1, z_2, a \in \mathbb C$` such that the principal values `$(z_1z_2)^a = \not  {z_1}^a {z_2}^a$`.

5. For any complex number `$z = \not 0$`, evaluate `$z^0$`.

6. Find the derivative of the given function.

   a) `$ \cos (ie^z)$`
   
   b) `$ z \tan \frac1z$`
   
7.  Find all complex values `$z$` satisfying the equation `$ \sinh z = -1$`.

8. Using the definitions prove that:

   a) `$\sinh{(iz)} = i\sin{z} $`
   
   b) `$\cosh{(iz)} = \cos{z} $`

9. Find the real and imaginary parts of the function `$\sin \overline z$` and use them to show that this functions is nowhere analytic.




## Resources

- Check the textbook.


- Explore the Internet.


## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.






