---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: cef71730-3afc-4637-9460-039802ccbe67
language: en
modified: '2019-09-13T06:42:39.458221Z'
title: LAF - Similarity and diagonalization
title_id: laf-similarity-and-diagonalization
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

To find eigenvalues, eigenvectors or do other computations with large general matrices is a hard work even for computers. On the other hand, computations with diagonal matrices is a breeze.  In this challenge with introduce the idea of similar matrices and diagonalization. That is, for a given "ugly" matrix, we will be looking for a similar one that is diagonal. If it exists, then thanks to the similarity, the matrices will have the same eigenvalues sitting on the diagonal of the diagonal matrix.

## Terminology

- `$A$` similar to `$B$`
- diagonalizable

 

## Theorems

- properties shared by similar matrices
- diagonalizability vs linear independence of eigenvectors
- linear independence of a collection of eigenbases
- enough distinct eigenvalues gives diagonalizability
- relation of geometric and algebraic multiplicity
- digaonalization theorem



## Key points

- similarity relation
- properties shared by similar matrices
- diagonalizable matrix
- when we can (or can't) diagonalize a matrix
- how to diagonalize a matrix if we can




## Challenge

1. Show that `$A$` and `$B$` are not similar matrices.

   a)  `$A =\left[ \begin{array}{cc} 4 & 1 \\ 3 & 1  \end{array} \right]$` and `$B = \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1  \end{array} \right]$`

   b)   `$A = \left[ \begin{array}{ccc} 2& 1 & 4 \\ 0 & 2 & 3 \\ 0 & 0 & 4   \end{array} \right]$` and `$B = 
\left[ \begin{array}{ccc} 1 & 0 & 0 \\ -1 & 4 & 0 \\ 2 & 3 & 4  \end{array} \right] $`

2. Determine, whether `$A$` is diagonalizable and, if so, find an invertible matrix `$P$` and a diagonal matrix `$D$` such that `$P^{-1}AP = D$`.

   a) `$A = \left[ \begin{array}{ccc} 1 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 &  0\end{array} \right] $`

   b) `$A = \left[ \begin{array}{ccc} 1 & 2 & 1 \\ -1 & 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 &0 \end{array} \right]$`


3. Compute the indicated power of the matrix using diagonalization.

   a) `$\left [ \begin{array}{ccc} 2 & 0 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 & 2 \end{array} \right ]^k$`

   b) `$\left [ \begin{array}{ccc} 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & -1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & -1 \end{array} \right ]^{2020}$`

4. Let `$A$` and `$B$` be `$n\times n$` matrices with `$A\sim B$`. Show that `$A$` is invertible if and only if `$B$` is invertible. 

5.  If either `$A$` or `$B$` is an invertible matrix, show that `$AB$` and `$BA$` are similar.

6. Prove that if `$A$` is similar to `$B$`, then `$A^T$` is similar to `$B^T$`.

7. Prove that if `$A$` is diagonalizable, so is `$A^T$`.


8. Let `$A$` be an invertible matrix. Prove that if `$A$` is diagonalizable, so is `$A^{-1}$`.


9. Prove that if `$A$` is a diagonalizable matrix such that every eigenvalue of `$A$` is either `$0$` or `$1$`, then `$A$` is idempotent (that is, `$A^2 = A$`) 



## Resources

- Check textbook

- [The advantage of eigenbasis by 3blue1brown (from 13:04 to 16:29)](https://youtu.be/PFDu9oVAE-g)
- 
- [Visualizing Diagonalization & Eigenbases by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/EJG6gBeVdfw)

- [Similar matrices have similar properties by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/jNtiENbAcFM)

- [Diagonal Matrices are Freaking Awesome by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/q48o3PXlg4Q)

- [How the Diagonalization Process Works by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/nNwZA1X-C3c)

- [Compute large powers of a matrix via diagonalization by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/Z8KBxf4C8kk)
 
- [Full Example: Diagonalizing a Matrix by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/ieWyx2mlZyk)

- [The Similarity Relationship Represents a Change of Basis by Trefor Bazett](https://youtu.be/s4c5LQ5a4ek)



- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from an immediate explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.






