---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: dae88784-3825-4735-b25d-94ef821ffc17
language: en
modified: '2019-03-29T02:02:58.000954Z'
title: Polar form of complex numbers
title_id: polar-form-of-complex-numbers
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Terminology

- polar coordinates
- polar form/representation of a complex number
- argument of a complex number
- principal value of argument/ principal argument
- multiplication and division in polar form
- integer powers in polar form
- de Moivre's formula

## Comments

As it turns out it is quite useful to expess complex numbers (vectors) using polar coordinates.

## Challenge

1. Express `$z$` in polar form using Arg`$(z)$`.
   a) `$z=3$`
   b)`$z=3i$`
   c) `$z=-3$`
   d) `$z=-3i$`
   e) `$z=i+1$`
   f)`$z=-2-2\sqrt{3}i$`

2. Evaluate the following expressions. You may express your answer in polar form.
   a) `$z=(\sqrt{3}-i)^{11}$`
   b) `$z=(-2-2i)^{-9}$`


3. Find `$z_1,z_2 \in \mathbb C$` so that Arg`$(z_1z_2) \ne {\rm Arg}(z_1) + {\rm Arg}(z_2)$`

10. How are the complex numbers `$z_1$` and `$z_2$` related if arg`$(z_1) ={\rm arg }(z_2)$`?

11. Student A states that, even though she can't find it in the text, she shinks that `$arg(\overline z) = - {\rm arg}(z)$`. For example, she says, if `$z = 1+i$`, then `$\overline z = 1-i$` and arg`$(z) = \frac \pi 4$` and `${\rm arg}(\overline z)= - \frac \pi 4$`. Student B disagrees because he feels that he has a counterexample: If `$z =i$`, then `$\overline z = - i$`; we can take arg`$(i) = \frac\pi2$` and arg`$(-i) = \frac{3\pi}2$` and so `${\rm arg}(i) \neq {\rm arg}(-i)$`. Take sides and defend your position.

## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/precalculus/imaginary-and-complex-numbers#polar-form-of-complex-numbers)

- Check the rest of the Internet.

## Tips

- To deal with complex numbers in polar coordinates it is quite useful to recall as much as possible about the functions sine and cosine and trigonometric formulas they satisfy.

- Strive for more than the required minimum! Find and solve more challenges to become really proficient.

