---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: db1f61ad-f14a-4884-9033-1de48bc77aee
language: en
modified: '2019-08-26T01:40:34.519902Z'
title: LAF - Determinants
title_id: laf-determinants
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

Determinant is a "magic" real number assigned to each square matrix. This unique number contains the most important piece of information about the matrix. In this challenge you will learn (a) a definition of determinants for `$n\times n$` matrix, (b) the properties of determinants that allow us to calculate it with ease, (c) the relationships between the determinant and the matrix operations. Finally, we use determinants to find solutions of linear systems or inverse of a matrix.



## Terminology

- the determinant of an `$n\times n$` matrix
- `$(i,j)$`-minor of a matrix
- `$(i,j)$`-cofactor of a matrix
- cofactor expansion along a row or a column
- adjoint of a matrix
 

## Theorems

- special method for calculating the determinant of a `$3\times 3$` matrix
- Laplace Expansion Theorem
- determinant of a triangular matrix
- properties of determinants
- determinant of elementary matrices
- determinant and invertibility
- determinants and matrix operations
- Cramer's rule
- inverse of a matrix in terms of determinants





## Key points

- ....
- 


## Challenge

1.  Compute the determinants using cofactor expansion along any row or column that seems convenient.

    a) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 5 & 2 & 2 \\ -1 & 1 & 2 \\ 3 & 0 & 0  \end{vmatrix} $`

    b)  `$ \begin{vmatrix} a & b & 0 \\ 0 & a & b \\ a & 0 & b \end{vmatrix}$`

    c) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 0 & 0 & 0 & a \\ 0 & 0 & b & c \\ 0 & d & e & f \\ g & h & i & j \end{vmatrix}$`

2. Compute the indicated `$3\times 3$` determinants using the method of Example 4.9 from textbook.

    a) `$\begin{vmatrix} 1 & 2 & 3 \\ -4 & 0 & 4 \\ -3 & -2 & -1 \end{vmatrix} $`

    b) `$\begin{vmatrix} a & b & 0 \\ 0 & a & b \\ a & 0 & b \end{vmatrix}$`

3. Evaluate the given determinant using elementary row and/or column operations and Theorem 4.3 to reduce the matrix to row echelon form.

    a)  `$ \begin{vmatrix} 1 & 0 & 3 \\ 5 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 & 2  \end{vmatrix} $`

    b)  `$ \begin{vmatrix} 0 & 2 & 3&1 \\ 1 & 3 &2&1 \\ 0 & 2 & 1& 1 \\ 1&0&1&0  \end{vmatrix} $`


4.  Use properties of determinants to evaluate the given determinant by inspection. Explain your reasoning.

    a) `$\begin{vmatrix} 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 3 & 0 & -2 \\ 2 & 2 & 2 \end{vmatrix} $` 

    b) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 3 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & -2 & 5 \\ 0 & 0 & 4 \end{vmatrix} $` 

    c) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 5 & 2 \\ 3 & -1 & 4 \end{vmatrix} $`  

    d) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 2 & 3 & -4 \\ 1 & -3 & -2 \\ -1 & 5 & 2 \end{vmatrix} $`   

    e) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 1 & 2 & 3 \\ 0 & 4 & 1 \\ 1 & 6 & 4 \end{vmatrix} $`    

    f) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 1& 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0& 0 & 1 & 0 \\0& 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0&0&0&1 \end{vmatrix} $`  

    g) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 0& 2 & 0 & 0 \\ -3& 0 & 0 & 0 \\0& 0 & 0 & 4 \\ 0&0&1&0 \end{vmatrix} $`  

    h) `$ \begin{vmatrix} 1& 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 0& 1 & 0 & 1 \\ 1& 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0&0&1&1 \end{vmatrix} $`



5.  Find the determinants assuming that `$\begin{vmatrix} a & b & c \\ d & e & f \\ g & h & i \end{vmatrix} = 4$`.

    a)  `$\displaystyle \begin{vmatrix} d & e & f \\ a & b & c \\ g & h & i \end{vmatrix}$`

    b)  `$\displaystyle \begin{vmatrix} 3a & -b & 2c \\ 3d & -e & 2f \\ 3g & -h & 2i \end{vmatrix} $`



6. Use Theorem 4.6 to find all values of `$k$` for which `$A = \left[ \begin{matrix} k& k & 0  \\ k^2& 2 & k  \\ 0& k & k \end{matrix}\right] $` is invertible.

7.  Assume that `$A$` and `$B$` are `$n\times n$` matrices with `${\rm det} A = 3$` and `${\rm det} B = -2$`. Find the indicated determinants.

    a) `${\rm det} (A^2)$`

    b) `${\rm det} (B^{-1}A)$`

    c) `${\rm det} (2A)$`

    d) `${\rm det} (AA^T)$`

8. Prove that `${\rm det}(AB) = {\rm det}(BA)$`.

9. Use Cramer's Rule to solve the given linear system.

   a) `$ x + y = 1 $`, `$x-y = 2$`

   b) `$ x + y -z = 1 $`, `$ x+y+z =2$`, `$ x-y =3$`



10. Use Theorem 4.12 to compute the inverse of the coefficient matrix.

   a) `$A =  \left[\begin{array}{rr} 2 & -1 \\  1&3 \end{array}\right]$`

   b) `$A =  \left[\begin{array}{rrr} 2 & 1&3 \\ 0& 1&1 \\0&0&1 \end{array}\right]$`
	      



11. If `$B$` is obtained by adding a multiple of one row (column) of a square matrix `$A$` to another row (column), then det`$B =$` det `$A$`. 

12. If `$A$` is an `$n\times n$` matrix, then `${\rm det}(kA) = k^n {\rm det} A$`.




## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Determinant of a `$3\times3$` matrix explained by Khan Academy](https://youtu.be/0c7dt2SQfLw)

- [Determinant of an `$n\times n$` matrix explained by Khan Academy](https://youtu.be/H9BWRYJNIv4)

- [Calculating determinant using its properties by TheTrevTutor](https://youtu.be/IjMxFP8AtpA) 


- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from an immediate explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.




