---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  6803de81-2784-4300-9adf-3a0f2d7698d5:
    content_type: image/png
    description: infinity
id: e1c257c4-1faa-4295-9701-7e7d0e3fb702
language: en
modified: '2019-07-16T06:40:46.893951Z'
title: Some Consequences of the Residue Theorem
title_id: some-consequences-of-the-residue-theorem
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

In our last challenge we take a look at some applications of the Residue theorem. We take a look at methods how to evaluate real "difficult" intgrals through complex analysis. 


## Terminology

- improper integral
- convergence vs divergence of improper integral
- the value of a convergent improper integral
- Cauchy Principal Value
- Fourier integrals
- indented contour




## Theorems

- behavior of integrals as `$R\to 0$` and/or `$r\to 0$` 


## Comments

Up to now we did not see many applications of complex analysis in the "real" world. The point of this challenge is to learn how to evaluate some of the typically difficult real integrals by the means of complex integration. 



## Challenge

1. Evaluate the given trigonometric integral.

    a) `$\displaystyle{\int_{0}^{2\pi} \frac{\cos ^2 \theta}{3- \sin {\theta}} d\theta}$`
    
    b) `$\displaystyle \int_0^{\pi} \frac1{1+\sin^2 \theta} d\theta$`

2. Evaluate the Cauchy principal value.

    a) P.V. `$\displaystyle{\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \frac{dx}{x^2 + 4}}$`
    
    b) P.V. `$\displaystyle{\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \frac{dx}{x^2 + 9}}$`
    
    c) P.V. `$\displaystyle{\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \frac{dx}{(x^2 + 4)(x^2 + 9)}}$`
    
    d) P.V. `$\displaystyle{\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \frac{\cos{x}}{x} dx}$`

## Resources

- Check textbook

- [2 part explanation by Michael Barrus on how to evaluate real integrals using Residue Theorem](https://youtu.be/z03usEpsHRU)

- [2 part explanation by Michael Barrus on using the Residue Theorem for improper integrals involving multiple-valued functions](https://youtu.be/JG76JS4EAxc)


- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.

