---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  f5c8df96-a1fe-4a93-b8bd-d9dccb9f2f8d:
    content_type: application/pdf
    description: Course introduction
id: e56a7d65-dc35-48eb-9159-09a59cb53d31
language: en
modified: '2019-05-31T04:15:09.890353Z'
title: Elementary functions (basic)
title_id: elementary-functions-basic
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Terminology 
- complex exponential function
- periodicity of complex exponential function
- fundamental region of complex exponential
- complex logarithmic function
- principal value and principal branch  of the complex logarithm 
-  complex power function
-  principal value and principal branch of complex power function
- complex sine and cosine
- complex hyperbolic sine and cosine
- inverse sine, cosine and tangent
- inverse hyperbolic functions








## Theorems

- basic properties of real exponential function
- algebraic properties and derivative of complex exponential function
- algebraic properties of complex logarithm
- inverse function of complex exponential
- analyticity and derivative of the principal branch of  complex logarithm
- analyticity and derivative  of the principal branch of  complex power function
- basic properties of real trigonometric and hyperbolic functions
- periodicity and zeros of complex sine and cosine
- modulus of complex trigonometric functions
- analyticity and derivative of complex sine and cosine
- analyticity and derivative of complex hyperbolic sine and cosine
- relation of hyperbolic and "non-hyperbolic" trigonometric functions
- branches and analycity of inverse trigonometric functions
- branches and analycity of inverse hyperbolic functions





## Comments

After introducing analyticity and its basic properties it is time to get to know some analytic functions that are common in calculations. They are all complex "extensions" of  well known real elementary functions like exponential, logarithm, powers, trigonometric and hyperbolic functions with their inverses. However, as we will see the complex versions are much more ... well "complex" than the real ones and care has to be taken while evaluating them.






## Challenge

1.  Find all the complex values.

    a) `$\ln{i}$`
    
    b) `$\ln{(1-i)}$`
    

2. Write in the form `$a + ib$`.
    
  a) `${\rm Ln}(-i)$`
    
  b) `$\operatorname{Ln}(-1-i)$`
    
  c) `$\operatorname{Ln}((1+i)^6)$`

3. Prove that `$\ln{(z_1 z_2)} = \ln{z_1} + \ln{z_2}$` for all non-zero complex numbers `$z_1$` and `$z_2$`. 

4. Find `$z_1,z_2 \in \mathbb C$` such that `$\operatorname{Ln}(z_1z_2) = \not \operatorname{Ln}z_1 + \operatorname{Ln}z_2$`.

5. Find all the complex values.
    
    a) `$i^i$`

    b) `$3^i$`
    
6. Write the principal value in the form `$a + ib$`.    

    a) `$(-1)^i$`
    
    b) `$(1 - \sqrt{3}i)^i$`
    
    c) `$i^{\displaystyle\frac{i}\pi}$`
    
7. Prove that `$a^{z_1} / a^{z_2} = a^{z_1 - z_2}$` for all `$z_1, z_2 \in \mathbb C$`.

8. Find `$z_1, z_2, a \in \mathbb C$` such that the principal values `$(z_1z_2)^a = \not  {z_1}^a {z_2}^a$`.


9. Write in the form `$a + ib$`.

   a) `$\sin{i}$`
   
   b) `$\cos{i}$`
   
   c) `$\sinh{i}$`
   
   d) `$\cosh{i}$`
   
   
10. Using the definitions prove that:

   a) `$\sinh{(iz)} = i\sinh{z} $`
   
   b) `$\cosh{(iz)} = \cosh{z} $`

11. Find all the complex values.

   a) `$\sin^{-1}\sqrt{2}$`
   
   b) `$\cos^{-1}{i}$`
   
   c) `$\sinh^{-1}{i}$`
   
   d) `$\cosh^{-1}{\frac12}$`









## Resources

- Check the textbook.


- Explore the Internet.


## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.






