---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources:
  6803de81-2784-4300-9adf-3a0f2d7698d5:
    content_type: image/png
    description: infinity
id: e8773e51-8de7-42fe-ad00-51a54499114a
language: en
modified: '2019-07-02T13:15:00.817616Z'
title: Taylor Series
title_id: taylor-series
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

A power series define functions within their circle of convergence. In this challenge we discover that such functions are analytic and their power series are unique. We call them  Taylor series. Moreover, we will see  if and how to express an analytic function as a Taylor series.   


## Terminology

- function  defined by power series
- Taylor series
- Maclaurin series 


## Theorems

- continuity of power series
- term-by-term differentiation of power series
- term-by-term integration of power series (contours, antiderivative)
- relation between the derivatives and coefficients of power series 
- Taylor's Theorem
- methods of finding expansion into Taylor series






## Comments

The theory of Taylor series is more straightforward for complex functions than it is for real ones. In future challenges we will combine the expansion into Taylor series  with Cauchy-Goursat Theorem for easier controur integration.


## Challenge

1. Find the Maclaurin series and its    radius of convergence for the given functions.

   a)  `$e^z$`
   
   b) `$ze^{2z}$`
   
   c) `$\cosh z$`
   
2. Find the Taylor series of `$e^z$` centered at `$z_0=2i$`. 

3. Expand the function `$f$`  in a Taylor series centered at `$z_0=i$`. 

    a)  `$\displaystyle{f(z)=\frac{1}{1-z}}$`
    
    b)  `$\displaystyle{f(z)=\frac{1}{z}}$` 



## Resources

- Check textbook

- [2 part explanation by Michael Barrus](https://youtu.be/akHCILPl0Uo)


- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.

