---
extra_resources: {}
topics: []
editor_id: github.NanoScaleDesign
modified: 2021-01-19T05:21:37.878797277Z
affiliated_institute:
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: 九州大学
version: '1.0'
title_id: fourier-analysis-coursework-2020
language: en
id: ee280791-6413-4f80-8dbf-38cf81e8af84
translations: {}
title: Fourier Analysis coursework (2020)

---

**- This is a coursework challenge and has the below deadline -**

## Comments
There are many interesting things about Fourier analysis, whether in terms of the mathematics or applications.
This coursework aims to give you the opportunity to follow areas related to your own interest in the subject.


## Coursework task

You have three options (choose _one only_):

1. Obtain data, then use your programming skills to analyse the data and extract interesting information from it.
2. Explore an area of mathematics related to Fourier analysis that was not covered by the course
3. Explore an area of mathematics related to Fourier analysis that was touched on by the course, but go into further depth.

## Submission requirements

Whatever you choose above (1-3), please submit the following:

**a**) A report (guideline: 3 to 4 pages)
**b**) A list of references
**c**) Challenges with their fully-worked solutions (ie, not just the final answer) (guideline: 2 challenges)
**d**) The source code used for your analysis (if you chose the programming project)

Please submit in PDF format, and include the original files you used to generate the PDF too.

Submission deadline: By email until **Tuesday 2nd February 2021 at 23:59**.

**Submit here:** https://forms.gle/3ssyjSAGxM6HGPmU9

There will be a 13% penalty for submissions made late, by Tuesday 9th February 2021 at 23:59. Submissions after this date cannot be considered (sorry).

During class the following day I will confirm that I received your coursework. This is the last chance to pick up on any technical difficulties that lead to missing submissions.

## Assessment

Grades will be awarded on the basis of creativity, demonstration of knowledge, quality of submitted work and accuracy.