---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.NanoScaleDesign
extra_resources: {}
id: ef385aaa-dba5-4a00-a79a-e9c7b427ad74
language: en
modified: '2019-10-21T00:45:37.83854Z'
title: Fourier transform of sine and cosine
title_id: fourier-transform-of-sine-and-cosine
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Comments
With Fourier series we can understand the integer `$k$` in `$\sin(2 \pi k t)$` as the frequency of the signal, and by building up the sum of sines and cosines (using exponential notation) we can reproduce very well an arbitrary periodic signal. With such a technique, the Fourier coefficients for even a single-frequency sine signal can be established.

Can we still understand the `$s$` in the Fourier transform `$\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} f(t) e^{i 2 \pi s t} dt$` as analogous to `$k$` somehow? What happens when you take the Fourier transform of a single-frequency signal? How is phase-information encoded? This is difficult to visualise but this challenge, dealing with simple single-frequency signals, should give you an initial appreciation.


## Challenge
1. Calculate the Fourier transforms of
**a)** `$\sin(2 \pi t)$`
**b)** `$\cos(2 \pi t)$`

You may find the following identity useful:
`$$ \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} e^{-i 2 \pi (s+c) t} dt = \delta(s+c) $$`

2. Write `$\sin(2 \pi t)$` and `$\cos(2 \pi t)$` in terms of complex exponentials. Can you see an analogy between the Fourier transforms you calculated and the complex exponential forms of sine and cosine?

## Solution Form
Note there are two parts to the challenge.

Part 1: For part (1,a) and (1,b), calculate `$\int_0^2 f(s) ds$` in each case. You will find that the magnitude of that integral is the same for (a) and (b). Enter that magnitude for an initial check of your answer, and then compare your results with your partner in class.

Part 2: Please compare what you have written with your partner in class.
