---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: f032401a-3f68-4159-9adf-6499f76d115a
language: en
modified: '2020-01-08T01:31:41.470358Z'
title: LAF - Subspaces
title_id: laf-subspaces
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

After the previous challenge we already know what vector spaces and subspaces are. In this challenge we will show that the ideas like spanning, linear independence, basis, dimension, coordinates or change of basis matrix that worked so nicely in `$\mathbb R^n$` work equally well in general vector spaces and subspaces. 


## Terminology

- span, spanning set, `$V$` spanned by `$S$`
- linearly dependent, linearly independent
- basis, standard basis
- coordinates with respect to a basis, coordinate vector
- finite-dimensional, dimension, infinite-dimensional
- change of basis matrix

 

## Theorems

- span of vectors is a subspace
- equivalent condition to linear independence
- basis provides a unique set of coordinates for each vector
- coordinates are linear transformation
- linear independence of vectors and of their coordinates are equivalent
- the Basis Theorem 
- dimension of subspace
- everything we learned about change of basis matrix in `$\mathbb R^n$` works here too


## Key points


- the ideas of span, linear independence and basis work the same as in `$\mathbb R^n$`
- `$\mathbb R^n$` is just a profound example of a vector space
- coordinates help us to describe any finite dimensional vector space using `$\mathbb R^n$`
- coordinates are linear transformation and hence preserve linear independence
- dimension is based on the unique number of vectors in a basis
- change of basis matrices are related to coordinates and hence work the same as before
- conclusion of above: the algebraic calculations are the same in many different vector spaces!




## Challenge

1. Determine whether the first vector is in the span of the others.

    a) `$C = \left[\begin{array}{rr} 1 & 2 \\ 3& 4 \end{array}\right]$` in span of  `$A = \left[\begin{array}{rr} 1 & 1 \\ -1& 1 \end{array}\right]$`, `$B = \left[\begin{array}{rr} 1 & -1 \\ 1& 0 \end{array}\right]$`?

    b) `$s(x) = 3-5x -x^2$` in span of `$p(x)= 1-2x$` and `$q(x) = x-x^2$`?

    c) `$h(x) = \sin x$` in span of `$f(x) = \sin^2 x$` and `$g(x) = \cos^2 x$`?

2. Determine whether the given vector space is spanned by the given set of vectors.

    a) `$M_{22}$` spanned by `$ \left[\begin{array}{rr} 1 & 1 \\ 0& 1 \end{array}\right]$`, `$ \left[\begin{array}{rr} 0 & 1 \\ 1& 0 \end{array}\right]$`, `$ \left[\begin{array}{rr} 1 & 0 \\ 1& 1 \end{array}\right]$` and `$ \left[\begin{array}{rr} 0 & -1 \\ 1& 0 \end{array}\right]$`?

    b) `$\mathcal P_2$` spanned by `$x+x^2$`, `$1+x$` and `$1+x^2$`?

3. Test the sets of vectors for linear independence. For those that are linearly dependent, express one of the vectors as a linear combination of the others. 

    a) `$\left\{  \begin{bmatrix} -1 & 1 \\ -2 & 2 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 3 & 0 \\ 1 & 1 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 0 & 2 \\ -3 & 1 \end{bmatrix},  \begin{bmatrix} -1 & 0 \\ -1 & 7 \end{bmatrix}  \right\}$`

    b) `$\{x, 2x -x^2, 3x+2x^2\}$`

    c) `$\{ \sin x, \sin 2x, \sin 3x\}$`

4. Let `$\{\bf u, v, w\}$` be a linearly independent set of vectors in a vector space `$V$`.

    a) Is `$\{\bf u + v, v+ w , u + w\}$` linearly independent? Either prove that it is or give a counterexample to show that it is not. 

    b) Is `$\{\bf  u - v, v - w , u - w\}$` linearly independent? Either prove that it is or give a counterexample to show that it is not. 

5. Determine whether the given set is a basis for the vector space `$V$`.

    a) `$V = M_{22}, \mathcal B = \left\{ \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{bmatrix} , \begin{bmatrix} 0 & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{bmatrix},		     \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 \end{bmatrix},  \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 1 \\ 1 & -1 \end{bmatrix} \right\}$` 

    b) `$V = \mathcal P_2, \mathcal B = \{1, 1+2x+3x^2\}$`

6.  Let `$\mathcal B$` be a set of vectors in a vector space `$V$` with the property that every vector in `$V$` can be written uniquely as a linear combination of the vectors in `$\mathcal B$`. Prove that `$\mathcal B$` is a basis for `$V$`.


7. Find the dimension of the vector space `$V$` and give a basis for `$V$`.

    a) `$V = \{p(x)$`  in `$ \mathcal P_2: \ p(0) = 0\}$`

    b) `$V = \{ p(x) $`  in `$ \mathcal P_2: \ p(1) = 0\}$`

    c) `$V = \{A  $`  in `$ M_{22}:\ AB = BA\}$`, where `$ B = \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 \end{array} \right]$`

8. Extend the given set `$\mathcal B$` to a basis for the vector space `$V$`.

    a) `$\mathcal B = \{ 1+x, 1 + x + x^2\}$`, `$V = \mathcal P_2$`

    b) `$\mathcal B = \left\{ \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 \end{array} \right],\left[ \begin{array}{cc} 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 1 \end{array} \right]\right\}$`, `$V = M_{22}$`

9. Let `$\mathcal S = \{\bf v_1, \cdots,v_n\}$` be a linearly independent set in a vector space `$V$`. Show that if `$\bf v$` is a vector in `$V$` that is not in span`$(\mathcal S)$`, then `$\mathcal S' = \{\bf v_1, \dots, v_n, v\}$` is still linearly independent.

10. Let `$S = \{\bf v_1, \dots, v_n\}$` be a spanning set for a vector space `$V$`. Show that if `$v_n$` is in span`$(\bf v_1, \dots, v_{n-1})$`, then `$\mathcal S' = \{\bf  v_1, \dots, v_{n-1}\}$` is still a spanning set for `$V$`. 




## Resources

- Check textbook

- [Linear combinations, span, and basis vectors by 3Blue1Brown](https://youtu.be/k7RM-ot2NWY)
 



- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from an immediate explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.






