---
extra_resources: {}
topics: []
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
modified: 2020-05-05T02:58:23.685401405Z
affiliated_institute:
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: 九州大学
version: '1.0'
title_id: lai-systems-of-linear-equations
language: en-gb
id: f0cf8093-12b5-45d0-9c67-bd8daaf45aa7
translations: {}
title: LAI -  Systems of linear equations

---

## Intro

It is a common believe that any real world problem can be modeled using an appropriate system of equations. It is therefore crucial to be able to describe all the possible solutions of a given problem. Therefore, the main questions are existence and uniquness of solutions. Even now with all the computation power these questions are often very difficult (if not impossible) to answer. 

Linear equations are the most elementary equations. On the other hand, we know from calculus that many nonlinear problems can be (locally) well described using systems of linear equations. Throughout this course, we will fully answer the existence and uniqueness questions for systems of linear equations. Moreover, we will take a look at linear systems from different points of view and find connections that will help us to understand them better and to apply them better.
  
## Online learning

Chapter - Vectors and Matrices

- Section - Systems of Linear Equations


## Terminology

- linear equation
- system of linear equations 
- coefficients, variables
- solution vs solution set
- existence vs uniqueness 
- consistent vs inconsistent
- back substitution
- coefficient matrix vs augmented matrix
- 3 elementary row operations
- row-equivalent matrices
- homogeneous system


## Key points

- system of linear equations is either consistent or inconsistent
- elementary row operations are reversible
- systems with row-equivalent matrices have the same set of solutions
- homogeneous systems are always consistent



## Exercises

1. Determine which equations are linear equations in the variables `$x$`, `$y$` and `$z$`. If any equation is not linear, explain why not.

    a) `$x-\pi y + \sqrt[3]{5} z = 0$`

    b) `$2x -xy - 5z =0$`

    c) `$3 \cos x - 4y + z = \sqrt{3}$`

2. Find a linear equation that has the same solution set as the given equation (possibly with some restrictions on the varibles).

    a) `$2x+y= 7 -3y$`

    b)`$\frac1z + \frac1y = \frac4{xy}$`

3. Find the augmented matrices of the following linear systems.
    a)  `$$  y + z = 1 \\ x + 2z = 0 \\ x + y = 3$$`

    b)  `$$  x_1 + 2x_2 = 3 \\ x_2 + x_3 = 0$$`
    
    
4. Find a system of linear equations that has the given matrix as its augmented matrix.

    a) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrr|r} 0&1&1&1\\ 0&0&0&0\\2&-1&1&1 \end{array}\right]$`

    b) `$\left[\begin{array}{rrr|r} 1&0&1&0\\ -2&-1&0&1\\0&0&0&1 \end{array}\right]$`

5. The system of equations is nonlinear. Find substitution (change of variables) that converts the system into a linear system and use this linear system to help solve the given system.
 `$$\tan x -2\sin y = 2 \\ \tan x - \sin y + \cos z = 2 \\ \sin y - \cos z = -1$$`

6. Solve the following systems of linear equations:

    a) `$$ x-y =1\\ x+y =3$$`

    b) `$$ x-y =2\\ 2x-2y =4$$`

    c) `$$ x-y =1\\ x-y =3$$`
    
7. Recall that the linear equation `$ax + by = c$` with real variables `$x,y$` and real coefficients `$a,b,c$` represents equation of a line. Keeping this in mind, solve exercise 6 once again, however this time only geometrically, without any algebra. What do you observe, when you compare results of exercises 6 and 7?     
    
8. A system of linear equations is called **homogeneous** if the constant term in each equation is zero. Solve the following homogeneous systems.

    a) `$$ x-y  = 0\\ x+y =0$$`

    b) `$$ x-y =0\\ 2x-2y =0$$`
    
    c) Give an example of homogeneous system that has no solution. If you can not, explain why.    
    
## Resources

-  Linear Algebra A modern introduction (4th edition) by David Poole 

- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing than from someone elses explanation.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however it is a waste of time for everybody if you do not aim higher.






