---
affiliated_institute:
  en_name: Kyushu University
  name: "\u4E5D\u5DDE\u5927\u5B66"
  url: https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp
editor_id: github.cbal-brezina
extra_resources: {}
id: fb731dcc-d152-4e91-acd0-aee60540464c
language: en
modified: '2019-06-11T04:30:42.170564Z'
title: Real integrals
title_id: real-integrals
topics: []
translations: {}
version: '1.0'
---

## Intro

Before we introduce complex integration it is useful to review our knowledge of integration of real functions of several variables.



## Terminology

- definite (Riemann) integral
- indefinite integral (primitive function, "antiderivative")
- parameterization of curve, initial and terminal points
- smooth, piecewise smooth, simple, closed curves
- line integrals with respect to `$x$`, `$y$` and arc length `$s$`
- orientation of curve, opposite curve


## Theorems

- Fundamental Theorem of Calculus
- method of evaluation of line integrals for a curve defined parametrically
- method of evaluation of line integrals for a curve defined by a function







## Comments

Try to understand the steps leading to definitions of definite and line integrals. Pay close attention to different types of curves and the idea of orientation. All concepts reviewed in this challenge will serve as a basis for integration of complex functions.



## Challenge

1. Evaluate the definite integral. If necessary, review the techniques of integration in a calculus textbook.

   a) `$\displaystyle \int_{-1}^3 x (x-1) (x+ 2) dx$`
   
   b) `$\displaystyle \int_{2}^4 xe^{-\frac{x}2} dx$`
   
   c) `$\displaystyle \int_{2}^4 \frac1{x^2 -6x + 5} dx$`

2. Evaluate the line integrals `$\int_C G(x,y)dx$`, `$\int_C G(x,y)dy$` and `$\int_C G(x,y)ds$` on the indicated curve `$C$`.

    a) `$G(x,y) = 2xy$`; `$x = 5\cos t$`, `$y = 5 \sin t$`, `$ 0 \leq t \leq \frac\pi4$`
    
    b) `$\displaystyle G(x,y) = \frac{x^2}{y^3}$`; `$2y = 3 x^\frac32$`, `$ 1 \leq x \leq 8$`

3. If `$\rho(x,y)$` is the density of a wire (mass per unit length), then the mass of the wire is `$m = \int_C \rho(x,y) ds$`. Find the mass of a wire having the shape of a semicircle `$x = 1+ \cos t$`, `$ y = \sin t$`, `$ 0 \leq t \leq \pi$`, if the density at a point `$P$` is directly proportional to the distance from the `$y$`-axis. 






## Resources

- Check textbook

- Explore the Internet

## Tips


- You learn more from trying and failing that from  explanation by others.

- Find and solve as many exercises as YOU need to become proficient.

- Required minimum must be set, however you should always aim higher.

